Seq2Seq20eng
lapsed written declarations see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
order of business
"by agreement with the political groups , I would like to propose the following changes "
the president cut off the speaker 
"mr borghezio , this is not a point of order , since we are talking about a plenary sitting ."
this is almost without precedent .
i was simply making legitimate and indeed valid political comments with which the alde chair disagreed .
this is why the microphone was switched off .
"if the european parliament censors political comment , it ceases to be a parliament ."
i will reply in writing to the letter you sent me .
thursday
so this is about postponement of the vote .
we had originally agreed to put it on the agenda on the assumption that everything was in order .
we therefore ask for the vote on this issue to be postponed .
welcome
i have some special information for you .
they are with us at our sitting .
please welcome them .
applause 
the second vice president of the pan african parliament and chair of the delegation for relations with the european parliament .
"our parliaments work closely together , and your presence with us today gives us great pleasure ."
i am sure we will have the opportunity to meet again .
"once again , I warmly welcome you all ."
preparation for the european council meeting 25 26 march 2010 debate 
"however , europe is meeting this situation by creating new economic policy tools in all areas ."
"it is being done in this way , by coordinating economic policies ."
"there is , moreover , a quantified commitment to the so calledfast start."
the heads of state or government will largely be dealing with those matters .
we have challenging tasks ahead of us .
"for those tasks , the fresh and forceful backing of the european parliament is of great importance ."
that support was clearly expressed at different formations of the council of ministers .
but now to the european council I believe every european council must do two things .
"the crisis entails several pressing concerns for communities , workers and businesses across europe ."
"and , as we know , public finances at national level are under unprecedented strain ."
"the european union must of course tackle these issues , including financial stability ."
i will come back to this again later .
europe must not make the mistake of neglecting the imperative of working now to bring about long term change .
we have already debated the europe 2020 strategy together in this parliament .
"so , too , will be the contribution of the european council ."
our level of ambition must be set by the scale of the tasks ahead .
we need to show that we have the vision and the coherence to act .
this is why I believe it is so important that the european council agrees clear targets this week .
the targets which the commission has put on the table were carefully chosen .
this is also about the political will to tackle tough problems .
"of course , the targets must be achievable ."
so we cannot accept the principles of interdependence globally and reject them when discussed at european level .
what we are proposing here is a new departure .
accepting this approach will be the real test for the european council .
i am encouraged by the results of the informal european council .
we need to keep this top of our agenda .
so let us move on from soul searching about copenhagen and take the initiative once again .
"we need a clear , unified and ambitious position ."
that is why the commission has put forward a communication setting out the steps needed to reinvigorate international negotiations .
"at the same time , commissioner hedegaard has started a set of consultations with our key partners ."
these two areas show vividly how europeans are looking to the european union's political leadership for action .
let me therefore state our position on this .
greece is currently in the process of correcting its excessive government deficit .
bringing the deficit down vigorously is crucial and greece has been taking measures to that effect .
it should be clear that the creation of such a mechanism will not imply its automatic activation .
creating such a mechanism is also a question of responsibility and solidarity .
solidarity is a two way street .
the world economy needs stability .
i hope this issue will be solved in a spirit of responsibility and solidarity .
that is the european way to do it .
applause 
"to what extent are they willing to cooperate , and what are the lines they are unwilling to cross ?"
it is in everyone's interests that we guarantee the stability of europe and of the european monetary system .
this responsibility is that of each member state to guarantee accurate and reliable public accounts .
"in other words , yes , europe must show solidarity with greece ."
it must ensure that greece comes through this difficult period .
it now remains for greece to implement them .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the crisis is forcing us to change ."
"the criteria of the stability and growth pact must be applied , and the commission must ensure this ."
this house will support it in this difficult task .
the second change concerns the governance of our public finances .
can this continue ?
i do not think so .
"such coordination will only make implementing solidarity based principles easier , fairer and more natural ."
"mr president in office of the council , I invite you to take initiatives along these lines ."
applause 
"greece has delivered , writes the international herald tribune ."
that is the first point .
applause 
the president of the commission has quite rightly spoken of a safety net .
that is not the objective .
interest rates are usually 2.5 to 3 % .
applause 
this means the people there are being robbed .
"the speculators will then turn their attention to italy , to the uk and to spain ."
"if we do not want to see a large scale conflagration , we need now to demonstrate solidarity with greece ."
it is not a matter of giving aid for the sake of it .
applause 
it is the commission that must propose how we can achieve a sensible stabilisation within the euro area .
the commission has made good proposals and I believe that the council should go along with them .
these do not include calling on the international monetary fund .
why not ?
we are in a position to resolve the problem within the euro area ourselves .
"moreover , I am astonished that chancellor merkel is bringing the international monetary fund into play ."
that is a quote from the german bundesbank .
that is not the right way to go .
the speculation will not cease until such a signal has been given .
this is nothing more than a game I will insure myself against my neighbour's house burning down .
"should my neighbour's house burn down , I get the insurance money ."
that is why solidarity with greece is an act to stabilise the euro in the euro area .
applause 
"i shall go further , mr president ."
that is my feeling today .
applause 
it is not about that .
there are two elements that count in terms of knowing what the interest rate is liquidity and credibility .
the only way of resolving that is really to take the necessary step of introducing this european instrument .
that is what will happen if a firm decision is not taken during this council .
applause 
that is why europe must intervene .
europe must intervene to ensure that greece's consolidation measures are worthwhile .
"they are necessary , but they must also be worthwhile ."
that is what we must hope for .
yet it is only now that we are debating the terms on which this assistance is being granted .
i think it is disgraceful .
applause 
the state of greece must utilise the crisis to bring about real reforms .
"as I have said , the greek people deserve much better ."
"we will then have a lot to do , and once again things will turn bitter , mr langen ."
we need to explain the necessity of integration to our citizens .
we have made as heavy weather of this as when discussing the constitution .
the necessity of integrating economic policy is what needs to be discussed henceforth .
"otherwise , as mr münchau wrote today , before long , chancellor merkel will be returning defeated from brussels ."
then bild zeitung will write the euro must be abolished we must bring back the deutsche mark .
what will we do then ?
it is not yet too late .
germany is in a decisive position .
i hope that mr sarkozy will not give in and is instead more sensible than chancellor merkel .
"i would like , in this chamber , to express approval for the greek government ."
"it is a government which , today , is facing protests on its streets ."
the debate on the eu 2020 economic strategy is naturally already on the agenda .
we want a strategy for europe that gives social and ecological needs priority over competitive interests .
eu 2020 is miles away from this .
i hope that this attitude will not prevail among the majority of the heads of government .
"mr president , my country , greece , has many things in common with california ."
the speaker was interrupted by a heckler 
"it is the economy yes , it is ."
i realise that .
that is why I said what I said before .
el . or would the central administration of the usa resolve its problem ?
do we or do we not have a central administration in the european union ?
has it sawed through the cohesion of the euro and is it threatening the unity of the union ?
we have achieved the single european market .
we have achieved the euro .
i do not think that we have achieved anything else in common .
that is why you also see me with the euro sceptics .
"i trust that tomorrow , we shall prove that we really have achieved harmony and something in common ."
hu those who spoke before me all mentioned the solution to the greek crisis .
"meanwhile , mr barroso , the summit did not even place it on its agenda ."
"do you not see this as a contradiction , as hypocrisy ?"
because it does not appear on the official agenda .
"of course , it is not just greece that found itself in a difficult situation in 2008 200an imf loan was accepted there , a move that has extremely serious consequences for the population ."
we need to face the question of what the lessons of the financial crisis are .
is it that everything is connected to everything else ?
no .
thewallstreet fell .
leading the union means seeking a solution for greece .
everyone has said so and I am not going to repeat it .
tougher sanctions would also have to be implemented so that the agreement really appears binding .
what else does it involve ?
tell us what it involves and we will help you .
the conclusions talk about a timely exit from exceptional support measures .
what does that mean in practice ?
we feel that timetable is hopelessly optimistic .
it is a recipe for disaster .
we need a sustained social and sustainable exit strategy .
the danish labour institute has produced figures today .
that can be avoided .
we have to avoid it .
"incidentally , this week , we are also proposing a new european mechanism for financial stability ."
"if implemented as it stands , europe 2020 will be another lisbon strategy a failure ."
europe should instead dare to attack these challenges head on with bold governance proposals .
"firstly , the open coordination method is not working and must be abandoned ."
an open process would create transparency and permit citizen involvement .
"as european politicians , we should always strive to put the citizens at the centre of our policy ."
"lv thank you , madam president ."
"in other words , this means that until 2020 , the equalisation of economic disparities will be less dynamic ."
thank you .
"el madam president , I think we have dealt sufficiently and fairly with the issue of greece ."
i should like to touch on an issue that also concerns other countries .
mr schulz said that interest rates currently stand at 2 3 % in europe .
"i should like to tell you that in cyprus , the interest rate currently stands at 6 % ."
anything above this level and the banks are on their knees and nothing can change this picture .
i should like to make two proposals 
we gave billions to the banks in a bid to get the banks rolling .
"i have one thing to say about one minute speeches , madam president ."
i am sorry but I wish to say that one minute is not long enough to present a view .
"in the final analysis , it is humiliating to have to resort to slogans ."
i hope that we do not have a mission impossible on our hands .
the bailout of a member state may not survive a probable constitutional appeal in germany .
how much of the structural funds ?
"only between 1 2 % is used in the sme sector in some regions , according to bodies representing smes ."
"these are real problems , affecting the real economy , which europe should address very seriously and urgently ."
"de madam president , I would like to start with some praise for greece ."
the solution to the greek crisis must entail tough reform measures in greece .
that is the right path to take .
to mr schulz I would say turning up the volume is no substitute for knowing the facts .
not the others .
now it is being asserted that the blame lies with speculators .
less than a third of the greek national debt is secured by credit default swaps .
less than one thousandth of global cds derivatives relate to greece .
that is just an excuse .
applause 
solidarity that helps greece to accomplish what it has to do .
that is the crucial thing .
chancellor kohl would have saidlet's solve this problem together with greece.
"chancellor merkel takes flight and says well , what does the treaty say ?"
what do the court of justice and the german constitution say ? 
nobody has asked for money to be put on the table .
"that applies not just to germany , but to the european union as a whole ."
"the answer , or lack of an answer , that we have given so far is not acceptable ."
we need a carrot and stick approach .
"however , we also need cooperation at european level , in particular , to prevent such problems arising ."
i therefore expect the summit to demonstrate european solidarity in order to create a better future .
"madam president , the spring summit is supposed to be the energy summit ."
green jobs lie at the heart of the eu 2020 strategy .
"we are , certainly , able to help safeguard the common market from protectionism ."
"better legislation is , of course , a particular responsibility of this very house , of this parliament ."
member states will reform if they are exposed to pressure from the world economy .
"by bringing in harmonisation in these areas , we are only maintaining the ills of the european social model ."
"it is freedom , and not successive strategies , which is the correct response to the crisis ."
"nevertheless , we have a problem ."
"we must put an end to this now , and hopefully we shall do so tomorrow ."
there should be emergency loans and nothing more .
"madam president , I hope that tomorrow , we shall look beyond the debate on this crisis ."
i hope we shall also look at medium and long term solutions .
we must strengthen the preventive force of the stability and growth pact .
"after all , as mrs ek also said , a free for all is not the way to success ."
mrs merkel also appears to be pushing things in that direction .
this is the prospect that awaits other countries which may apply such measures under such pressure .
i heard mr langen interpret the treaty .
"yes , there is the treaty , the letter and the spirit ."
that is why we have to be creative that is why we have to show solidarity .
"that issue is now on the table it is serious , it is unresolved ."
they are decided in advance by the political elite and governments of the member states of the european union .
"madam president , two things ."
"the first concerns public finances , and the second competitiveness ."
"last year at this time , we were discussing in this parliament how to face the crisis ."
now we see the results .
that is the reality which is squeezing out welfare spending and investments in a lot of the member states .
that is up to the heads of governments to do this week .
"or as mr mccreevy said whenever politics interferes , the result is always worse ."
we have seen the results .
the international fiasco is the cause of the overindebtedness of the member states of the european union .
"no , she did not understand it at all ."
these are not the leadership skills that we need in the european union .
we have told the commission here that eu 2020 is too watered down .
there is no meat in it .
please provide some evidence that you are able to acquire new funds .
please fight for a financial transactions tax .
stay strong and create european instruments !
i also wonder what the difference was last year when ireland faced the same situation and instituted hard cuts .
nobody came forward at that time with the idea of calling on a european monetary fund .
mr verhofstadt says that speculators are at work .
our italian colleagues used the rate advantage they gained from their accession to the euro area to consolidate .
greece consumed it .
i have one more thought .
we should talk positively about the euro .
it is not a currency crisis that we have it is an economic crisis .
the euro is a major benefit for everyone .
"that is why I am in favour of this major , strong currency ."
"the europe 2020 strategy rightly states that growth should be intelligent , sustainable and inclusive ."
this is the new development that really should be implemented now .
"of course , we have been talking about this for a long time ."
"this will actually help us to save costs , reduce dependencies and solve a series of problems ."
"above all , we must make the target of 20 % energy savings binding ."
what is the point of europe if not to help greece at this time ?
"indeed , how can they think of waging this battle against chancellor merkel ?"
our intervention therefore needs to be free of any speculation .
we must act swiftly to help greece .
europe must do so in the interests of europe .
ro the council of the european union enthusiastically welcomed the commission's europe 2020 communication .
i think that it lacks financial consistency .
they can also provide the european union with much sought after security in both the energy and transport sectors .
"today , the debate revolves around greece tomorrow it will probably concern another member state ."
the president of the european commission spoke about responsibility and solidarity .
he was right .
both are needed when you belong to a family such as a euro area .
i do not think that anyone can doubt that greece has fully assumed its responsibilities .
"however , it cannot face the fury of the market alone at this difficult stage ."
"eighteen months ago , the markets were threatening to bring down the global economy ."
surely greece will be threatened today .
"this includes reform efforts on the labour market , but it also includes national budgetary policy ."
"what is more , it will only succeed if the commission takes the lead politically ."
"in other words , we absolutely must avoid the mistakes of the lisbon strategy ."
it has often been said in the past that the strategy of cooperation that characterised the lisbon strategy failed .
"from the economic point of view , it must be reflected in the commitment to governance ."
"now , however , it has fully assumed its responsibilities ."
the greek people are paying a heavy price .
"however , we must not hide our heads in the sand ."
greece is not the only country in emu facing serious problems .
it was not the only country to take recourse to the toxic services of certain credit institutions .
"it is not , nor will it remain , the only target of speculators ."
we all know and we know full well that the greek issue is a european issue .
"emu will remain mutilated without more coordinated economic and fiscal policy and , above all , without solidarity ."
"the crisis , any crisis is the mother of change ."
the current crisis may give birth to a stronger europe and greece may be the midwife of that change .
so let us not shoot greece down .
thank you for your attention .
europe's integration process is not irreversible .
we should not be talking about how we are making germany less competitive .
we must now acknowledge that that was a major mistake .
one important element would be for it to cut back on its military budget .
"madam president , I would like to make the point that you could not make this up today ."
that is incredible .
the whole world is watching every day what is going on here .
it is rapidly failing .
we have already seen the good people of germany saying that they are not happy with the situation .
it is their case .
it is their cause .
i am sickened by what I have heard today from many .
"it is a self centred opinion for those other member states , looking after themselves ."
greece is the problem at the moment .
i feel it will go from greece to spain and then portugal and italy and so on .
the rollercoaster will start .
mark my words the problem is here to stay .
"madam president , the troubles of greece and the eurozone should not be seen as an exception ."
"a single currency for such a large , economically heterogeneous region of the world is self evidently problematic ."
the value of a currency should reflect the condition of a state's economy .
"when the economy thrives , the value of the state's currency will tend to rise ."
"when an economy falls into recession , the value of the currency will tend to fall ."
the state of the economy of greece requires a depreciation of its currency .
"if it had experienced that depreciation , it would have benefited from a tourist boom ."
the euro is not a solution to the economic problems of the world .
it is the problem .
it is truly imprisoned in the eurozone .
this should be a warning to countries outside the eurozone .
join it at your peril .
"once inside , you will be locked in for ever ."
"fr madam president , I have one observation and three proposals ."
my three proposals concern greece's recovery plan .
"my second proposal concerns finance , since we do not have the instruments ."
"lastly , it has been said that greece's accounting was flawed ."
it is not only in greece that accounts are flawed .
i think it is very clear that we are not just a group of countries .
i would like to thank all of you for support when it comes to the eu 2020 strategy .
the time has come for a decision .
i was listening very carefully to the calls for better governance .
this is exactly what the commission has in mind and these very proposals will come very soon .
"we need higher employment , we need a better gender balance and we need stronger education ."
"firstly , europe is an integration of economic policies we have integrated economies ."
"secondly , europe is based on solidarity and therefore has a strong social content ."
"thirdly , europe has economic and financial stability ."
these three european characteristics are clearly implied in the greece issue .
such a failure will not come about in the european council .
"moreover , we are going to look further ahead ."
we are going to look at the short and the long term .
the elements of creating incentives with the structural funds were not in the lisbon strategy .
"clearly , very important progress is therefore being made ."
it is also working closely with the commission and parliament .
you referred largely to the economic issue .
"the debate was also on governance , as a fundamental element in that regard ."
"i do not think that should be criticised , quite the contrary ."
this is leading the european union according to the community method .
"therefore , the minister's speech brings the debate to a close ."
written statements rule 149 
we also need to set clear long term objectives .
priority must be given to the sustainable development of the european economy .
this would be an unrealistic target for a number of european states .
"as a project , europe has been about peace , social well being , freedom and growth ."
"the economic , financial and social crisis that we are currently experiencing requires a concerted response at european level ."
the eu has credibility and liquidity .
this is a time that requires solidarity between the member states and europe's institutions .
it is even a matter of duty .
it is to be hoped that the upcoming european council will take steps towards achieving integrated and coordinated solidarity .
such an attitude is needed if the european project is to move forward .
solutions for the monitoring of each member state's deficit must be sought later .
explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 170 of the rules of procedure 
"the economic and financial crisis , and greece , require european action ."
an end needs to be brought to the public arguments .
we await a joint answer from the summit .
we also sayyesto loaning money where the reform programme would otherwise be threatened .
budgetary and economic data must be inspected by eurostat and the commission .
greece is an example that europe must learn from .
"the conclusions must be drawn at the local , the european and the global level ."
more european collaboration and less national egoism are the order of the day .
in writing . I would like to speak about the european digital agenda .
"by 2020 , a single and secure european e services area should be created ."
"it would provide eu citizens with easy and safe access to all digital services , both public and commercial ."
member states should develop national plans for the digital switchover of public services .
coordinated regulatory intervention is required in order to protect the common currency against speculation .
a detailed examination of the operation of the credit default swaps market is needed .
greece is not begging .
it is demanding that the short supplies of greek citizens should not vanish into the pockets of international speculators .
"for that reason , particular attention must be given to the drawing up of the 2020 strategy ."
"the member states must produce clear concepts , visions and ideas ."
europe must also take on the leading role when it comes to environmentally friendly technologies .
"in my view , however , nuclear power is little suited to leading europe into a sustainable energy future ."
the main theme of the spring european council is the eu 2020 strategy .
67 % of european citizens feel that job losses are their main concern .
this is precisely the reason that the european council must focus particular attention on the eu's industrial policy .
the european union must retain its global competitiveness .
the citizensinitiative is a very clear priority for the presidency of the council .
very clear .
it is a priority because we believe that it is a priority for europe .
the citizensinitiative is a tremendous device for successfully unleashing a genuine european debate in civil society .
"that is why , mr president , we have considered the citizensinitiative to be a priority ."
i know that they will .
"until now , the european construct was based on representative democracy ."
i must say that we have been very positively surprised by the responses we have got .
i hope that the college will adopt the proposals we are working on on 31 march .
i can also tell you that this probably would not be possible without strong encouragement from the spanish presidency .
i had the honour of taking it to the presidium and we approved it .
"participation by citizens , therefore , and issues dealt with at european level ."
"mr šefčovič , who is preparing this proposal , has not told us what it involves ."
he has left us with our mouths watering .
"on behalf of my group , mr šefčovič , I would ask that it contain at least three ideas ."
"firstly , that it should be clear and simple ."
"in other words , do not let us make things complicated ."
i will give you an example of this that I saw on the internet .
it is direct public access to parliament that justly strengthens its legitimacy .
"it strengthens the notion of citizenship , which is at the very root of the european project ."
it is the opportunity for people to actually get close to parliament and learn how it can be useful .
"be flexible , please !"
"make access to this initiative easy , but let us make it clear as well and not disappoint expectations ."
"the commission will then , in its wisdom , decide whether it does anything or not ."
we should not raise false hopes or create misunderstandings .
a procedure for advance conformity has been discussed .
i think that it is something that should be considered very carefully .
let us allow the public to have their say .
what we are discussing today is the first instrument that provides for direct citizen participation at the european level .
"as far as relates to the citizens , there are hardly any europe wide debates at all ."
"the crucial thing , however , is what form we give it ."
that depends on the form that we choose for this measure .
"there is , therefore , one very particular point that I would like to bring up ."
we need three levels of admissibility checking .
"firstly , the formal level does it have the necessary signatures ?"
this is by way of encouragement .
"briefly , I have a second piece of encouragement to mention ."
"due to the time constraints , I cannot now go into any other points ."
i hope that we can together bring this first instrument of transnational democracy into being .
"in one respect , I would like to make a request for more flexibility ."
why should we predefine the issues on which citizens can raise an initiative ?
"if , for example , it is on the place where parliament should sit , we should respond ."
why should we avoid the issue ?
let us tackle what the citizens are asking us head on .
"there is one issue that I would like to make clear , and that is transparency ."
"therefore , you might see a number of organisations organising the collection of these signatures ."
let it truly be an initiative of the citizens and not of civil society organisations and ngos .
"mr president , our citizensmistrust of the european union is growing ."
the low turn out at the eu elections speaks volumes .
our group is therefore calling for the rules not to be made too stringent .
"however , as the european parliament , we can also do something to take the citizensinitiative seriously ."
"what is this european citizensinitiative , in essence ?"
"what we need in europe are binding referendums , for example , on the accession of turkey ."
this new tool should be correctly used by being fully exploited .
"furthermore , its credibility must be assured ."
"in this respect , serious requirements need to be addressed ."
"let me briefly mention only two , knowing that there are several others ."
the collected signatures must be verified appropriately .
we must find the optimal solution the appropriate balance between different rules and common requirements .
the second topic is the admissibility of the initiative .
"again , every aspect must be examined carefully in order to find the best way to go ."
are they mutually inclusive principles ?
i welcome and am grateful for the progressive work of vice president šefčovič and the spanish presidency .
i would really like to know the outcome of the meeting .
"so , thank you very much again , vice president ."
you did an excellent job .
let us continue .
we will have to be able and want to give support to promoters to meet the technical requirements .
"most importantly , parliamentarians should be prepared to act together with initiators of an initiative ."
this does not compromise our rights .
"we can help , and that way we can establish together a real european democracy ."
i see the european citizensinitiative as a good opportunity to increase support for europe among citizens .
"mr president , I wish to draw attention expressly to a citizensinitiative that was launched recently ."
i would appeal to everyone to support and publicise this initiative .
such initiatives can indicate what citizens consider important .
"i think the european parliament's role should be much greater , here ."
parliament should work together with the commission to evaluate and give opinions on initiatives which are submitted .
"i very much appreciate and value your approach in this matter , commissioner šefčovič ."
the second question concerns the financing of the whole process .
"who , therefore , will be responsible for financing citizensinitiatives ?"
i think it is not just a fig leaf .
this legislation must be citizen friendly and it must be highly visible .
there must also be easily accessible assistance and help given to citizens who wish to organise a petition .
it should be made clear where the commission can act and where the commission cannot act .
so we need absolute clarity on this and we need to be proactive .
the citizensinitiative is like a newborn baby .
it has unlimited potential but it must be handled with care when it takes its first tentative steps .
we must avoid those errors that are currently looming in relation to petitions at all costs .
active citizens are awaiting the result they are waiting to see what form we give to the initiative .
"if we set the hurdles too high , we will be frustrating a major potential for europe ."
think about it .
it will take an enormous effort for interested parties in a particular subject to collect a million signatures .
it is therefore of particular importance how the commission deals with this concern .
"for me , this is the key issue ."
it is a new opportunity for european citizens to have a greater say in the decision making process .
that is what we must always bear in mind .
it is these kinds of obstacles that we must avoid in the case of the citizensinitiative .
"lastly , we must not lose sight of the enhanced role of our parliament ."
only in this way will we make the union's extra bit of soul a true democratic heart .
"mr president , this is one of the most important democratic advances for the european union ."
"for the first time , citizens on a transnational basis can request that the commission bring forward proposals ."
but this needs to be a transparent process .
it is extremely important that the treaties are complied with .
many thanks for that .
de I will now continue in german .
we hope that there will be a finished proposal by the summer .
that is important in order to meet the expectations of the citizens .
"my proposal would be to start at five , which is a fifth of the member states ."
"there should also be support for the initiatives , for example , with translations ."
"sk commissioner , thank you for providing an outline of the next steps ."
the citizensinitiative shows the citizens of the eu a further means of european integration .
member state citizens will have the opportunity to lobby european institutions .
the protection of national constitutions must be given precedence and guaranteed .
"mr president , I am very happy with the citizensinitiative ."
"if you do not mind , I will switch to dutch to explain why I am so happy !"
"it is also important , therefore , that they know when they can come knocking at our door ."
"in fact , it is not our door but that of the european commission ."
does the man on the street know when it is possible to appeal to the commission ?
a far reaching information campaign is necessary to let citizens know .
"this initiative certainly further strengthens democracy , since it allows citizens to propose laws directly ."
"in other words , it is a form of direct democracy which complements parliamentary representation ."
we must not let this opportunity slip through our fingers .
this is a practical contribution to european democracy .
this principle finds specific expression in the citizensinitiative in article 11 4 .
"this is an important and exceptional arrangement which promotes democracy , political equality and transparency ."
this is where the problems arise .
my conclusion is this we all have a responsibility to promote this initiative .
the treaty of lisbon has an important contribution to make in fighting the democratic deficit .
i am talking about the strengthening of parliaments both the european parliament and national parliaments .
"we do , however , need to seek a solution that will encourage and stimulate public involvement ."
we need the european public to have greater involvement and to actively exercise their citizenship .
"generally speaking , it is a fact that democracy is today taking a backwards step ."
"above all , it enables citizens to take forward initiatives and I am delighted that is the case ."
"i firmly believe that this project , i.e. this initiative , could greatly strengthen european democracy ."
"naturally , the procedures must be simplified , straightforward and flexible ."
"that said , I am not here just to give praise ."
"firstly , we europeans are technologically advanced people ."
"secondly , I would like to point out that what we are doing here is just a first step ."
i would like to go a step further .
we now have a right of initiative for the citizens .
it would be my wish that we should also have this in europe .
"for this reason , I eagerly await an appropriate regulation from the commission ."
"mr president , the use of the referendum direct democracy is not an exotic version of democracy ."
it is the original form government by the people and not government on behalf of the people .
so perhaps we should be grateful to the eu for introducing this .
i think not .
the eu only likes democracy when it can manage it and arrange for a result that it wants .
mass migration has made this difficult to achieve .
europe as a whole has become even less of a single people than it might otherwise have been .
another important way of exercising and consolidating democracy is the use of referendums .
"there was a 51 % turnout , with an overwhelming majority voting in favour of the proposal ."
i wish to welcome the commission's initiative in launching a broad public consultation on the regulation online .
i agree in principle with most of the proposals in the green paper .
and why not ?
"of these questions , I would like to emphasise one in particular ."
"on the other hand , however , this has real possibilities for citizens ."
that is an important consideration .
"so I think there is great scope here , and I look forward to its development ."
"mr president , I must express my deep satisfaction regarding the debate that has taken place ."
"furthermore , there is support for it to be carried out quickly ."
mr kamall is not here .
these are the two main political pillars of the european union democracy and citizenship .
yet it is a european union that is unconnected with the debate that is carried out in each country .
it is a paradox that affects democracy itself .
"as mr kastler also said , this initiative must be applied ."
there are many things on which we all agree .
"the first one is , clearly , transparency ."
we all agree on practicality .
we would like to have a system which is user friendly .
it is clear that there are different systems for the verification of signatures in the member states .
i would like to assure you that we will definitely do that .
i can assure you that there are no easy answers to these questions and to these slightly contradictory requests .
the commission is looking into the option which would defend european values and human rights from the outset .
we have also to bear this in mind .
i hope that we will find the right balance on how to keep this admissibility check in adequate proportion .
i think that strong and wide public consultations are taking place through the smart legislating proposals .
we will widen this and use it even more in the future .
the item is hereby closed .
written statements rule 149 
the new legislative framework on the european citizensinitiative is undoubtedly welcome .
there had long been a case for citizens to have access to such an instrument .
this is the only way that the eu will successfully move closer to its citizens and become more democratic .
the treaty of lisbon gives the citizens of the european union the right to propose a legislative initiative .
the citizens of the european union eagerly await this .
the european citizensinitiative is mainly about greater involvement of the citizens in creating european law .
transparency of procedures is also important .
the organisers of initiatives must be publicly responsible for transparency concerning the financing of the campaign to collect signatures .
those votes reflected a noticeable lack of communication between the european union and its citizens .
the commission received as few as 159 responses from individuals .
"however , we must make sure that guarantees against abuses are met ."
"it should be simple , understandable and easily accessible ."
"in this way , the work put into its preparation and the effort invested will not be wasted ."
situation in tibet debate 
the next item is the commission's statement on the situation in tibet .
it is evident that differences with china on tibet remain .
the eu position does not leave any room for misinterpretation .
"therefore , let me stress the eu respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of china , including tibet ."
we respect theone chinapolicy .
the dialogue should also address the participation of all tibetans in decision making .
"for the eu , tibet is a human rights issue ."
we welcome that the tibetan side has reiterated its firm commitment not to seek separation or independence .
"from our side , I can guarantee the eu's wholehearted support to such a process ."
"finally , president obama recently met with the dalai lama in the white house ."
we look forward to seeing baroness ashton inviting the dalai lama and meeting him in brussels .
"in other words , we defend human rights and we also defend dialogue , meeting and agreement ."
mr lópez garrido's presence in this house to talk about all matters is almost superhuman .
"obviously , china's communist party knows very little of spirituality and cultural identity ."
we must not give up .
china's shoulders are broad enough to enable it do so .
we are also supporting as is mrs andrikien the creation of a coordinator for tibet .
this is a battle for freedom which therefore concerns the identity of our continent .
they did not even listen to what mrs andrikienwas saying .
this is not true .
there must be no repeat of this .
it would appear that china does not want anything from the talks .
"china wants to continue to violate tibetan cultural , religious and language rights ."
we cannot accept cultural genocide of this sort .
"a month ago , I went to dharamsala and I met the dalai lama ."
i talked with him for an hour just before he left for the united states to meet president obama .
i was convinced that I had to propose in parliament that we should discuss the situation in tibet .
"despite this , the claims persist ."
i am calling on the european union to condemn these remarks and raise the matter with china .
"if the european union is not bold enough to defend tibet , not many others will ."
we need to keep this matter alive in the european parliament .
reference was also made here to the fact that we need a special representative for tibet .
we have all kinds of special representatives .
it is quite intolerable that the council should walk out of this debate .
uighur jihadists have also exploited recent unrest in tibet to foment their own violence against the chinese government .
"this means that the commission recognises china's right to occupy tibet , which is a very serious matter ."
the european parliament should also listen to the tibetan community .
events push us towards making some decisions in this house .
"this week , google has abandoned china ."
"on the other hand , we cannot say that the situation is good ."
"tibetans are forbidden from doing anything to rescue their own culture , identity and religion ."
the chinese authorities say that the dalai lama is a private person .
"today , the 21st meeting of the tibetan task force for sino tibetan negotiations begins in dharamsala ."
"this is sad , indeed ."
"it is clear that the only lasting solution would be autonomy , and indeed an expanded , true autonomy ."
it is not enough to formulate criticisms .
"it would be good if the commission , ms catherine ashton and the council thought this through ."
nor was it ever debated in the council of foreign ministers .
"therefore , in order for us to succeed , criticism on the matter of tibet is not enough ."
we also need a conception and mediation .
"after all , tibet is also an important challenge ."
"we may agree or disagree on tibet , but , really , mrs ashton should be here ."
"today , mrs ashton is like pontius pilate , who washed his hands ."
this is embarrassing .
it is not enough to offer minority rights in the form of purely folkloristic performances for foreign tourists .
ro mr kaczmarek spoke earlier about the protests in 200national security cannot be used as grounds for abolishing fundamental civil rights .
"if we fail to adopt such a position , we know what happens ."
we have seen it in the past where chinese communist leaders try to intimidate eu member states individually .
i believe that this issue must be dealt with during summit meetings .
i agree with the high representative in this regard .
what is the european union's reaction to the very events which we are talking about at the moment ?
"mr šefčovič , you said you are appealing to both sides for dialogue ."
was that a joke ?
do you really mean to appeal to the representatives of tibet for that dialogue ?
i was under the impression that they are willing for this .
"madam president , tibet and its cultural heritage is our common treasure ."
"sadly , this is not the case ."
this can be prevented only by granting them a genuine autonomous status .
"i would note , commissioner , your statement that tibet is our legitimate concern ."
china can become truly great only by showing respect towards its minorities .
i know personally what a godless and materialistic communist regime is capable of .
the global public cannot remain silent .
i myself am a member of the friends of tibet group in the european parliament .
i appeal to the commission not to forget this hard pressed group of people in its programmes .
a hypocrite who is dependent on something on those cheap goods from china .
i am referring to the appointment of a special coordinator for tibet .
let us do this .
let us do it now .
i therefore disagree with those who think that this issuewas not of concern.
"we in the european union cannot go on putting up with this game , far less fuel it ."
we must also be clear in this respect .
"otherwise , nothing will be credible in terms of human rights ."
"madam president , on 10 march , we celebrated the 51st anniversary of the popular uprising in tibet ."
"we europeans keep learning from his holiness , the dalai lama ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"de madam president , I will go straight to the commissioner for clarification ."
"even you , commissioner , cannot render international law null and void ."
i believe this to be a concern that really pulls on the heart strings of every european citizen .
we are very quick to judge small countries that commit transgressions .
"we react strongly , and we pass our judgment on small countries very quickly ."
"we tread on eggshells , both politically and diplomatically ."
we are likewise unable to put pressure on china through millions in development aid .
i therefore expect the high representative .
the president cut off the speaker 
sl I am one of the few who recently had an opportunity to visit tibet .
rivers have been polluted and motorways which blot the tibetan landscape have appeared .
"however , there is some progress under way in tibet ."
"moreover , our discussion has underlined the necessity for both parties to promptly resume dialogues ."
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
dozens of civilians were killed and several hundred were wounded .
the results of these efforts are still not satisfactory .
"we have , doubtless , not even heard about many similar incidents ."
"this would be followed by specific action and , I hope , visible results ."
thank you for your attention .
"the media , today , are full of information about china ."
"in this context , the media have , recently , also been writing about tibet ."
"however , can his strategy be successful ?"
economic interests cannot be made a reason to forget the persecuted and the suffering .
"since that time , tibetans have not been allowed to commemorate that day freely ."
"in eastern europe , where I come from , the story is a familiar one ."
"however , what we are talking about here is more than that ."
one minute speeches on matters of political importance
the next item is the one minute speeches in accordance with rule 1rule 150 states that we may spend a maximum of 30 minutes on this item .
we had more than 74 requests to speak under this item .
that will clearly not be possible .
thirty minutes and 74 speakers for one minute will simply not work .
all of those who have not been granted speaking time were informed of this in advance by e mail .
"therefore , they do not need to be here to wait in vain for their speaking time ."
i hope that you understand that .
this was the only possible way to enable the debate to proceed in an orderly manner .
"therefore , those who have been granted speaking time can now begin straight away ."
we all know how sudan has suffered under his rule of violence .
it is difficult to say how free the election will be .
"on monday , al bashir threatened to expel the international election observers ."
"he said that if they interfere in sudan's affairs , he would cut their fingers off ."
we know that sudan is a country in need .
it is my hope that the election in sudan will create the conditions for a .
the president cut off the speaker 
"in my opinion , governments that have been unable to resolve unemployment stabilisation problems should not receive praise ."
italian citizens have come up with theclean parliamentprogramme .
would it not be better to improve the services provided in biarritz by introducing non polluting forms of transport ?
i should like to know which measures the president is going to take with regard to this extension .
mr zuev was killed about a week ago in kaliningrad .
he was a well known journalist and blogger .
this is not the first case of a journalist being killed in russia .
"since the year 2000 , there have been at least a dozen such cases ."
"in our dialogue with russia , we should always draw attention to this ."
the bill of indictment states that the company has been involved in a long term bribery process .
"as a result , apart from the financial crisis , we also have a moral crisis ."
greece's problem is mainly political .
the president noted that there was a problem with the microphone 
it has worn down the resistance of greek society and the economic strength of the greeks .
"as I said , its problem is mainly political ."
we are not asking for money from any european citizens .
"for seven months , there was anice age."
"apart from sanctions , there was also a result ."
the conclusion was that the eu sanctions that were disguised as bilateral measures had no valid legal basis .
they were an unwarranted encroachment on austrian sovereignty .
mr nérin's death reminds us of our duty to cooperate in the fight against terrorism .
"very early on , franco spanish cooperation proved to be a model of its kind within the european union ."
france and spain were the first member states to introduce joint investigation teams within the european judicial area .
implementing european arrest warrants also proved very effective .
we shall therefore have to increase our cooperation if we are to combat terrorism more effectively .
theno tavcampaign has clearly shown that there is no justification for tav .
only 38 % of current rail capacity is used .
only big business and major construction interests stand to gain .
i call on the eu to withdraw all funding for tav and for the cancellation of tav .
theno tavcampaign's motto issarà dura.
they will not flinch .
"take the small town of congleton , for example , which is a local semi rural community ."
"you see , this is the genius of the eu it is always one person removed ."
the green belt has successfully protected the beauty of our countryside and blocked arbitrary urban sprawl .
"this shows a lack of respect for our culture and traditions , but what do you care ?"
i wish to emphasise the need for action to prevent psychological violence as well against women .
recent studies have shown that this kind of violence always precedes acts of physical violence .
"however , these measures must continue ."
i would like to stress that it is impossible to curb rising poverty in a year .
we are fighting with all the workers to create .
the president cut off the speaker 
"once studies of this nature get into the mass media , they naturally raise concerns among consumers ."
"against this backdrop , we must ask ourselves two questions ."
hu the new member states are now implementing the 2007 european union wine market organisation .
this is contrary to eu regulations because this wine can belong to either one category or the other .
the slovak request is now no longer in the community's e bacchus database among the protected designations of origin .
"the commission has thus put an end to this illegal situation , and I thank them for it ."
"for this reason , I ask the commission to remedy this irregular situation ."
"meanwhile , how is the corps of the european external action service being created ?"
diplomats put forward by the member states are to make up only one third of the whole corps .
"after all , staffing in all the union's institutions is managed according to this principle ."
i see no reason for things to be done differently in this case .
"it will be even more detrimental to banana producers on the canary islands , spain ."
this house is aware that the irish state coffers are bare .
would the irish government be prepared to do something about that ?
implementation of this directive means that riders are being forced to fit new silencers to their bikes .
the perpetrators are either acquitted or sometimes charges are not even brought against them .
the spontaneous legacy of this practice continues today against hungarians .
"madam president , the european parliament should take decisive action to stop the anti hungarian terrorism in serbia ."
"pl madam president , women are under represented in science and scientific research ."
"in europe , they account for 30 % of researchers and only 18 % of professors ."
"among those involved in the management of science , we account for 27 % ."
the project concerns research into the causes of discrimination and the search for effective anti discrimination measures .
"when the citizens of the union write to the commission , their letters must not go unanswered ."
and why is that ?
because it has many faults .
"as well as that , the directive does not mention scheduled flights ."
that concludes this item .
thank you all for your understanding and for the disciplined proceedings .
the next item is the joint debate on 
the treaty of lisbon gives parliament additional powers in the area of the budget .
"this , of course , poses a particular challenge that of discipline ."
there will not be a repeat a second chance .
we have to establish very many things at the conciliation meeting .
"for the new budgetary procedure to proceed efficiently in the autumn , we must work together and be disciplined ."
why else is 2011 so special ?
the budget for 2011 is the fifth budget in the multiannual financial framework .
"as you know , the multiannual financial framework covers the years 2007 20we have already learned a great deal during the four previous budget procedures ."
"however we say it , we are in a situation where the multiannual financial framework is becoming exhausted ."
the margins are very small .
the treaty of lisbon gives new powers to the european union in areas such as space policy .
what is significant is that it also establishes the european external action service .
"reflection on the budget is also essential , and on how we intend to realise the eu 2020 strategy ."
none of these undertakings was provided for in the multiannual financial framework .
"we must , now , begin a discussion about how to finance these new plans and ambitions ."
young people are already the driving force and future of europe .
"this is a very difficult moment , especially during a crisis ."
i would like to mention some statistics 21 people between the ages of 15 to 24 are unemployed .
i will now switch to english because I am now going to be replacing mrs helga trüpel .
i have prepared to speak in english which accounts for the change of language .
"therefore , the committee emphasises legislative excellence , which is a top priority ."
"member of the commission . mr president , I am in a listening mood this evening ."
the first is that we are adjusting to the post lisbon treaty environment .
"we have partly adjusted , but some work remains to be done ."
"good cooperation between the institutions is needed more than ever , because of a single reading in parliament ."
what has been already agreed are some transitional period arrangements agreed at the november conciliation .
a pragmatic timetable permitting predictability in the budget has been in place since 1975 and has also been confirmed .
what remains are the modalities in the conciliation committee .
"this is essential now , given there is a single reading of the annual budget ."
the budget headings which appear to be under financed are easy to detect .
"here I am referring to heading 1a and heading in other words , the report on priorities is clearly upgrading heading what is important is implementation . that should be at cruising speed by 20therefore , I am looking forward now to starting the procedure for 20brussels , too , must watch how it spends every public euro ."
sustainable growth in poor countries will afford people opportunities they do not currently have .
"not only that , but their development forms part of the solution to our crisis ."
"developing countries are a market , and a fast growing one at that ."
"we must protect the development cooperation budget , however hard that may be ."
"after all , choices relating to poverty reduction must never be dependent on our diplomatic interests ."
i welcome the fact that we can deem the 2011 budget theyouthbudget .
we believe and recommend that parliament should abandon a budgetary model that is purely incremental .
"instead , it should move towards a zero based budget , which makes efficiency , and therefore savings , possible ."
we still need to find out more and more thoroughly about what our fixed expenditure is .
this must still be followed by a cost benefit analysis of the various policies implemented .
"for our part , this dialogue must be honest . we are committed to seeing that it is ."
"however , these guidelines are also a very realistic first step ."
"this is particularly sensitive with regard to the first heading , the heading on competitiveness , growth and employment ."
"on behalf of the alde group . mr president , I would like to stress three points ."
"firstly , concerning the structural funds approximately 35 % of the budget ."
we are doing only half as well as we did in 2000 200the current absorption rate in all funds is 14 % and it was 25 % before .
"otherwise , we will have a situation where the money is not used ."
"on the other hand , it could be a reserve ."
there is also the question of whether this money will be used or not .
"in the agriculture budget in 2009 , payments were eur 2 billion less for rural development than in 200lastly , regarding the seventh framework programme ."
so the question is whether delivery will be satisfactory .
then we can plan the budget according to the situation .
we have so many needs in other areas as well .
so are those reserves or not ?
"indeed , those priorities leave much to be desired ."
"in itself , this choice of priority is something to be welcomed ."
"one proposal , for example , is the creation of an erasmus first job programme ."
"the problem is that in politics , the devil is in the detail ."
what are we talking about when we talk about anerasmus first job?
how are we to implement it ?
"by diverting erasmus funds to students , or by creating a new programme with fresh money ?"
i believe that these questions go to the very heart of the debate .
the most pertinent issue in 2011 will still be the unemployment that is rampant in the eu .
it is our responsibility to tackle unemployment .
many of them are fairly well educated .
they only lack job opportunities .
"i , frankly , would not be able to respond if they asked this question ."
no proposal for an increase in the budget should be tolerated .
the president cut off the speaker 
i would like to concentrate on two aspects .
investment in youth means thinking today about the europe of tomorrow .
"hu fellow members , we all know that the european union's budget needs serious reforms ."
what is our problem ? our big problem is that this is an extremely inflexible budget .
"we cannot rise adequately to the daily challenges , or even to the annual challenges except with difficulty ."
"and there is , of course , little room for manoeuvre , the options are limited ."
the rapporteur has produced a balanced proposal .
she has taken into account the realities of the situation and formulated sound targets .
i hope that parliament will follow and support the text and proposal before us .
i would like to speak for a few more minutes about the cohesion policy .
the cohesion policy is not a form of do goodism .
"true , there are enormous gaps between the developed and the underdeveloped regions ."
"we seek to eliminate these differences , or at least to shrink them ."
"otherwise , there is no greater waste ."
i hope that there will be progress in this regard .
the committee on budgets is very keen to see that we get value for our money .
thank you for your respectful attention .
the initial report was perhaps understandably vague and general .
"however , the amendments at committee stage ensured we are now clear on what is important ."
i am sure all members will take that point on board .
"the analysis of europarl tv , to see if it is effective or not , is also welcome ."
it should not be a unilateral decision .
"i hope tomorrow , colleagues will support these and other amendments which are aimed at improving the guidelines ."
the guidelines for the 2011 budget also include the european parliament's own budget .
"nl mr president , we are living in financially and economically difficult times ."
"in addition , citizens have little confidence in european policy , and this concerns me greatly ."
"i wish to present two proposals relating to the examination of the next budget , therefore ."
"this is not the case at present , which is not what I would call transparent ."
"mr president , my second point concerns the budgets of the national information offices of the european parliament ."
i call on my fellow members to support these proposals .
this would demonstrate our desire for transparency and our intention not to give ourselves special treatment .
i have a substantive question regarding the priority the rapporteur gives to youth .
"as a rule , social and youth affairs can be handled very well by member states ."
yet I would draw attention to one issue where eu support is truly indispensable .
the report mentions young people's transition from education to the labour market .
"last month , on a visit to bulgaria , I saw a truly inspiring example of this ."
i am counting on you .
"mr president , the most important priority of any budget should be only to spend your own money ."
"spending someone else's without their permission is not budgeting , it is theft ."
"taking that money , without a democratic mandate , is not a victimless crime ."
our soldiers are killed by taliban bombs because we cannot afford blast proof vehicles .
thousands of cancer victims are denied expensive life saving drugs .
there should be only one budget priority slash spending and stop robbing britain .
"to them , it is a matter of life or death ."
i also want to welcome the return to the traditional system of budgetary guidelines .
we in parliament are not going to put pressure on him for the time being .
"as he knows , we will be doing that from september onwards ."
new challenges for the 2011 budget arise every day .
i would like to comment briefly on both reports .
"firstly , I would like to thank mrs jędrzejewska , who has produced an excellent report ."
"firstly , we need to make it clear that climate change is still a major priority ."
"in all other respects , however , we need to look for ways to make savings and increase efficiency ."
"this is particularly relevant , as heading 5 of the budget , for administration , is severely stretched ."
"we recently discussed the new external action service , for example , which will certainly require extra resources ."
we must focus on parliament's core task and elsewhere employ a great deal of constraint .
parliament should be taking a lead .
we need to send a clear message to our governments on this and save 200 million a year .
the european external action service is something that I take a particular interest in .
"however , this is not yet included in the budget that the commissioner is soon to present ."
"however , the question of how much it will cost is of key importance for us ."
"i am in favour of us including this service within the commission , as that is where it belongs ."
we cannot have administration of multiannual programmes outside the commission .
we cannot allow this under any circumstances .
"for that reason , what is most interesting about this budget is what it does not include ."
"everything is accounted for , down to the last cent ."
"this rail journey basis should be scrapped , with the focus put on airline tickets and flying time instead ."
i now turn to parliament's budget .
i would therefore like to ask specifically that we provide ourselves with appropriate means to enable us to work .
the bureau should be so kind as not to trouble the members on this account .
i have one further request .
the president of the european council is not yet accounted for in the budget .
"it would be nice if we could acknowledge his existence in the budget , too ."
"de mr president , we need a different eu and we also need a different eu budget ."
i think we need the courage to make big decisions .
we should certainly not get bogged down in minute technical details .
i would like to say three things about the eu budget .
the current eu budget does not provide any realistic information on this .
my second point is about savings .
"for example , we could shut down a large number of the eu's agencies ."
then there is the second seat in strasbourg .
"thirdly , how is the money used ?"
"the money should be given , or given back , to where it comes from , namely the taxpayers ."
i think we need courage .
we would all do well to take note of this .
the time has come for decisions about spending money from eu coffers to be made jointly .
"however , time is also needed for this mechanism to begin to work ."
"there is no doubt that for parliament to perform its duties effectively , it needs the appropriate means ."
"europe is still behind in the technology race with the usa , japan and other new world powers ."
"however , this can , certainly , be changed , but it requires significant outlays ."
we should develop programmes such as those which make milk and fruit available at schools .
investing in young people is investing in the future .
young people with degrees are increasingly affected by unemployment .
"commitment to young people , innovation and science is the key to making europe a world leader once again ."
"the support for small and medium sized enterprises , mainly in the weakest regions , is also interesting ."
our priority must be to preserve existing jobs and create new ones .
i believe that the european union must invest in an intelligent and ambitious industrial policy .
a medium and long term successful buildings strategy is important .
"it needs to be environmentally friendly , energy efficient and particularly cost effective ."
"even municipal politicians like the mayor , freddy thielemans , admit this ."
young people must be supported both at eu and national level .
"however , it is also vitally important to increase the funding for erasmus mundus grants ."
job retention and creation should receive most attention .
"yes , that was low level in 2009 20it should go at cruising speed by 2011 , as should anti crisis delivery ."
"but , of course , this should come this year if the external action service is to be operational ."
let us hope also for a fruitful conciliation of the 2011 figures .
i am very pleased and motivated by this .
"as you know , the year 2011 is the fifth year of the multiannual financial framework ."
surely it is time we learned something from those four years . the fifth ought to be decidedly better .
many of you said something which I agree with that young people are the european union's future .
they are in education today and they are looking for work today .
"young people are not only our future , they are our today ."
we should keep reminding ourselves of this .
i would also like to say a few words on this extended thinking about the european union budget .
i would also like to say a few words to summarise the debate on the european parliament budget .
"once again , I would like to thank you for your attention ."
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
written statements rule 149 
this project will only have a chance of success if we provide the necessary funding for it .
"this includes technological innovation , sustainable development , combating climate change and care for biodiversity ."
"support for the development of educational systems , with the assistance of interdisciplinary investment , is also strongly justified ."
the money must be invested in enterprises which guarantee that graduates will find employment .
testing will also start in 2014 on the safety of life service and commercial service .
let me remind you that galileo is crucial to the future of high tech industry in europe .
it will create new markets and enable europe to become a global competitor in the field of technology .
the circumstances in which the 2010 and 2011 budgets will be adopted are exceptional and pose a particular challenge .
parliament must engage in an open discussion about the expenditure ceiling in heading 5 for 20work on the 2011 budget is under way .
the budgetary priorities must contain the european union's response to the challenges of the global crisis .
"the europe 2020 strategy is , from this point of view , a very important factor ."
request for the defence of parliamentary immunity see minutes
agricultural product quality policy what strategy to follow ? debate 
"by supporting niche agriculture in these disadvantaged areas , we will create an economy and jobs there ."
this last point is vitally important if we want to protect against the counterfeiting of our high quality products .
"that is my intention , in any case ."
it has been a real pleasure working with him and with the other spokespeople for the parliamentary groups .
i am delighted at what mr cioloş had to say .
"we naturally hope he will listen to parliament's voice , which will be reflected tomorrow in the vote ."
"as you have all observed , competition can take many forms on the markets ."
"before concluding , I shall take the liberty of making one final point , which concerns labelling ."
"the report had four , or rather five points for debate ."
"first , the joint european union logo ."
i therefore ask that we support the specific eu logo .
the second point is the question of the place of origin .
"occasionally , this causes concern , most recently in the case of tokaj wine ."
the fourth element the organic logo .
on this there is complete agreement .
i would like to return to the original form of mr scottà's report .
there is much in it that is to be commended .
"we cannot support paragraph 19 , the so calledwonky fruitparagraph ."
it is surely a decision for consumers .
i would also like to see some changes in paragraph it has to resonate with consumers and give some sort of return to the farming community .
"otherwise , it is worthless ."
we have brought forward a number of points and I will focus on two of them only .
i and others believe that our consumers want to know where their food comes from .
so there is much in this report to like .
i would echo mr lyon's comments on the eu logo .
i think that is more to do with the ambitions of this building rather than what our consumers want .
the amendments are constructive I hope they will be successful and that colleagues will support them tomorrow .
we must always strive to achieve the maximum potential of europe's agri food industry .
this will ultimately serve to increase our competitiveness and strengthen the economy in rural areas .
these instruments have proven popular with consumers and producers alike .
"however , I agree with the rapporteur that their management and application must be simplified ."
"also , if we are serious about their value abroad , we must ensure more protection from third countries ."
"however , I must point out that there are some elements of this report which I do not support ."
i am against the introduction of an eu quality logo .
what I support is country of origin labelling .
the fact is these rules were dismantled by the commission last year .
i wholeheartedly supported this move and now we can let the market set its own standards .
"madam president , thank you for the opportunity to speak on this very important point ."
"obviously , promotion and marketing will be the hallmark of the success or failure of such a policy ."
we must take firm action against the potential counterfeiting of products which are wrongly labelled .
i like many colleagues in this chamber would be against an eu logo .
i feel it would be largely meaningless and would not be helpful to consumers .
"i come from northern ireland , a net exporter of agricultural products ."
"therefore , I want any labelling system to create a level playing field ."
i therefore consider mandatory quality labelling to be an important opportunity for our farmers .
"in order to guarantee this high quality standard , controls and objective criteria are certainly needed ."
"however , the fact is that financial considerations on the part of the consumer also have an effect ."
"quality costs , and farmers need a fair income ."
we also need to raise the general awareness of consumers in this regard .
we need protected geographical indications and designations of origin .
we need the introduction of a regulated and protected designation for products from mountain areas and from gmo free areas .
"however , we also need thetraditional speciality guaranteedandorganic farmingindications ."
"whatever happens , these must be retained ."
our businesses need to gain market recognition of the distinctive and quality related aspects associated with their products .
"madam president , first , may I declare an interest ?"
i am an egg producer .
regulations must be honestly implemented to a common standard .
that is essential .
an eu inspired crisis will shortly hit the uk egg industry .
"from 1 january 2012 , the production of eggs in battery cages is banned ."
only then can consumers make an informed choice .
i believe that we take the same approach to these quality products .
"yes , they represent an opportunity for our most fragile regions ."
management of production rights is a fundamental part of quality production policy .
"moreover , almost all of our committee voted in favour of an amendment along these lines ."
let us together interpret this amendment as a call to find a new middle way .
now present us with a good text .
do so quickly we have faith in you .
where a product comes from is important .
local specialities are of immeasurable value .
the region that I come from in finland produces a delicious goat's milk cheese .
i can recommend it to you all .
there are special products like this all over europe .
we have to ensure that they find their way onto the market .
"if we remember this , we will have an excellent future , with safe and pure food originating here ."
"de madam president , many thanks once again to the rapporteur for his excellent report ."
"as a result , they play an important part in the development of rural areas within the european union ."
the european union's agricultural products already meet high quality standards .
european standards have a global reputation for being very high .
"unfortunately , not all consumers are aware of this ."
this will be an incentive for producers to focus more on quality and food safety .
consumers have a right to enjoy agricultural products in the eu without concern and without compunction .
the purpose of the european union is not to be concerned about the curvature of cucumbers .
the same applies to the size of pizzas .
i would seriously warn against overregulation here .
"if we want regional economic cycles , we need to focus on quality and not on degrees of curvature ."
"therefore , let us focus on quality and not packaging units ."
ro let me begin by congratulating the rapporteur for tackling this issue of agricultural product quality .
the demands of the market are diverse and are increasing all the time .
"faced with these new commercial challenges , the european farmer's main asset is quality ."
"however , there are a few aspects capable of enhancing quality ."
"that is why efforts are being made to safeguard them , including with labelling ."
ro the agricultural product quality policy may provide a solution for many farmers .
the focus on quality rather than quantity may entail long term benefits for many households .
"against this backdrop , the scottà report is welcome , as is the package announced by commissioner cioloş ."
an agricultural product quality policy and a reduction in the european agriculture budget are two incompatible ideas .
"quality logos should , in principle , be viewed as beneficial if they are voluntary ."
they give producers and processors of goods the opportunity to be successful in niche markets .
this robs producers and processors of their entrepreneurial freedom and also narrows the choice for consumers .
we need to be careful that good intentions do not descend into excessive bureaucracy .
this leads to unfair competition .
"as was rightly emphasised in the report , this has to change ."
"de madam president , the control of foodstuffs is a utopian fantasy ."
"the pressure for control and the consequences are , too , it seems ."
we are thus in a right old stew !
"in the case of health risks , authorities should put out warnings , but they are not obliged to ."
we have seen the result of this recently in the listeria contaminated cheese scandal .
they are completely overwhelmed by the labelling jungle .
quality conscious customers are prepared to pay more for high quality foods .
"the question is for how long , if rogue traders are also operating in this area ."
you are right about that .
the designationmountain produceis therefore particularly important .
i would like to address two points .
"however , producers want and need these rules ."
we should take that into account in our debate and also in the vote tomorrow .
it is important that information on the quality of goods reaches the consumer .
we know that every product allowed on to the market must meet minimum standards .
consumers must know what they are buying and for what they are paying .
i would like to point out the key importance of improving designations of origin for foods .
every agricultural product in the eu must be clearly labelled with the origin of the raw materials .
consumers must not be duped by fraudulent labelling .
"take china , for example ."
imported seeds arrive in austria and then the so calledpressed seed oilis sold there .
"in my view , a protected designation of origin and geographical indication system must be implemented ."
food quality and safety are among the main challenges that we must resolve in the future .
thank you for your attention .
it is therefore not my intention to merge for the sake of it .
we therefore have to see which is the best way to successfully differentiate our products from the others .
"madam president , ladies and gentlemen ."
"thank you , commissioner cioloş ."
i should like to begin by talking very briefly about the land .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
written statements rule 149 
the european parliament will continue to fight for the protection of both farmers and consumers .
the health of the latter depends on the quality of the produce of the former .
i am pleased to note the recognition of this indication .
market globalisation and the economic and financial crisis that has struck europe have not spared the agricultural sector .
"to emerge from this , we need to focus on the quality and safety of our produce ."
"the agricultural product quality policy is not a static policy , separate from the other policies connected with agriculture ."
"g20 labour and employment ministers meeting washington , 20 / 21 april debate "
this would result in nearly 1.5 billion working poor worldwide .
these figures speak for themselves .
"indeed , the current crisis highlighted the most painful weaknesses of our increasingly interconnected global economy ."
there is now a clear consensus on the need for global actions to solve global problems .
"accordingly , the g20 leaders agreed to build an employment oriented framework for future economic growth ."
this is all very welcome .
this unprecedented meeting will take place in washington dc on 20 and 21 april .
the commission and the spanish presidency will also participate .
social partnersinvolvement can bring tremendous added value .
the commission is ready to share this experience with the european union's international partners .
the commission will keep parliament informed about the progress made at the washington dc meeting .
"this is a necessity , because there can be no social integration without integration via the workplace ."
"this meeting we are having today owes much to the chair of the committee on employment , mrs berès ."
an act of god prevents her from being here today .
i am going to speak on behalf of us both .
it is not enough to regulate financial products we must get to the very bottom of the wrongdoing .
a dangerous game is being played between ministers for finance and ministers for employment and social affairs .
the commission praises our fiscal discipline but we are haemorrhaging jobs .
we are balancing the books but our workers are paying the price .
it is time to put an end to the regression of social and labour rights that we are seeing .
"without the creation of new jobs with rights , there can be no way out of this crisis ."
we know that this will have long term social as well as political consequences .
"around the world , this goes hand in hand with extremism , which poses a long term threat as well ."
"however , I believe that even this is more than anything we have done in the past ."
"madam president , as we are all saying , the financial crisis has hit ordinary people very hard ."
i just hope we do have those positive outcomes .
we know there is record unemployment in many countries across the world .
we have got to look at the real way of getting people into work into real jobs .
"training programmes , for instance , have to be adequate to actually cover the needs at the moment ."
"work has been done in those other countries , so why are we not learning from them ?"
we must make sure the core ilo conventions are actually implemented .
we must make sure the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is implemented .
we must make sure that those who are not protected at the moment are protected in the future .
the voice of europe needs to be heard loud and strong there .
creating jobs must be a priority for europe .
"realistic , specific , quantifiable targets , both long term and immediate , urgently need to be set ."
we urgently need to be able to safeguard decent work for the citizens of europe .
we urgently need to be able to safeguard the employment and pension rights of workers .
we are close to forgetting the obvious that work is a lever for growth .
this is what will create the conditions for a sustainable recovery that provides a wealth of jobs .
"social progress is a prerequisite for ending the economic crisis , not the other way around ."
small and medium sized enterprises are shutting down en masse .
the number of long term unemployed is also growing constantly .
"this week , in my country , lithuania , 300 000 people were registered unemployed ."
my country has never experienced this before in the 20 years since it became independent .
"therefore , I hope that such concrete decisions are taken at this meeting ."
it is a major step forward that labour ministers are meeting in the g20 context .
the banks have been recapitalised and financial stability has enjoyed priority .
now we have to prioritise job creation .
this is a sound standard for us in moving forward on employment and social relations .
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
"unfortunately , a failure to recognise this reality is evident in the current eu 2020 strategy ."
we cannot go back to the extremes of the days of rampant capitalism the world of oliver twists !
"otherwise , the eu 2020 strategy , just like the lisbon strategy , will end in failure ."
fight against tuberculosis debate 
the next item is the statement from the commission on the fight against tuberculosis .
"however , for too long , we have mistakenly lowered the guard against tuberculosis ."
this amounts to about 16 deaths a day .
this is simply unacceptable and requires action by all concerned sectors and stakeholders .
it is unacceptable because tuberculosis is a preventable and curable disease that should not lead to such dramatic consequences .
the commission has launched a number of initiatives over the past years to strengthen capacities to tackle tuberculosis .
"in 2000 , tuberculosis was included in the list of priority diseases under eu wide surveillance ."
this has improved our shared knowledge and monitoring of the epidemiological situation .
"since 2002 , more than eur 124 million has been allocated to these efforts ."
"but , as tuberculosis is not constrained by borders , we have to support countries beyond the european union ."
"however , the commission cannot succeed in this challenge alone ."
tuberculosis is the seventh most common cause of death in the world .
"globally , there were 9.4 million new cases of tuberculosis in 2008 and 1.8 million deaths ."
a person is infected by tuberculosis somewhere in the world every second .
"ultimately , we are the european union and our strength lies in unity ."
"sv that is what ban ki moon said today , on world tuberculosis day ."
"he is right , of course ."
"however , as the commission pointed out , people in europe are also dying of tuberculosis ."
"mr president , medical progress has not yet overcome tuberculosis ."
"consequently , it is wrongly considered to be a disease that affects only poor countries ."
"this underestimates the way in which it is spreading , especially in central and eastern europe ."
"furthermore , the multiple resistant strains offer little hope of an end to this scourge in the short term ."
"when it comes to financing the measures , it is advisable to distinguish between two scenarios ."
the number of cases of tuberculosis has been decreasing within the eu .
this reduction is linked to the success of the national plan to fight tuberculosis .
"in some countries , however , it has recently been shown that the disease is resurgent ."
the various action plans promoted by the european commission are steps in the right direction .
i would like to highlight the partnership between europe and developing countries in carrying out clinical trials .
strengthening the role of clinical and scientific research is vital in the fight against tuberculosis .
i also call on you to encourage greater investment in scientific research in the fight against tuberculosis .
i took great pleasure and interest in listening to the speeches of the honourable members .
we are determined to achieve our targets in order to control the tuberculosis disease .
these kinds of discussions are of particular importance in order to concentrate all attention and focus on this disease .
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation short presentation 
the financial crisis added to this fragile situation in which these countries found themselves .
"in fact , all areas of activity in these countries have been damaged ."
"economic growth , which will be much lower in 2009 than in previous years , has been damaged ."
"trade has decreased , which will weaken these countriescurrent account balances ."
"at the same time , emigrant remittances have fallen and official development assistance has also been reduced ."
one common feature is the increase in the financing needs of many countries .
"on 21 april , the commission will publish its yearly spring development package of proposals to member states ."
"this year , the focus will be on the actions that remain necessary to achieve the mdgs ."
the package will adopt a comprehensive approach and define an action plan for accelerated progress towards the mdgs .
"ro the economic and financial crisis has also hit moldova , a developing country , very hard ."
direct investment needs to be encouraged .
the cost of money transfers made by emigrants from the countries they work in must be reduced .
the agreement was reached today by prime minister vlad filat during the donor conference .
i am glad that mr guerrero has taken up these proposals and I congratulate him on his splendid report .
"sv mr president , I would like to thank the rapporteur for his important report ."
"in a few daystime , the acp eu joint parliamentary assembly will meet in tenerife ."
"they need trade , but our policy counteracts the establishment of healthy markets for agricultural products in developing countries ."
"the eu has shown leadership says the commissioner , but we can do much better ."
"it is a matter of fair trade , commissioner ."
yet it is foreign debt that continues to be the principal drain on the resources of developing countries .
cancelling the debt is simply a matter of justice .
"keeping to the speaking time , too , is a matter of fairness ."
another cause of the crisis is a globalisation concept that has made complete deregulation its highest priority .
the countries of europe are getting themselves ever deeper into debt in order to restart their economies .
we must give the developing countries the chance to emerge from the crisis under their own steam .
traditional development aid can probably be considered to have largely failed in its purpose .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place on thursday , 25 march 20written statements rule 149 "
"by implementing these actions , the european union must be the leader and act more resolutely ."
"the economic crisis is already affecting the population directly , while unemployment is on the rise in developing countries ."
eu funding programmes are the most comprehensive and inclusive among the financial aid schemes available globally .
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting was closed at 23.15 
opening of the sitting
statements by the president
this makes us aware that the problem of terrorism in europe has not yet been solved .
theladies in whiteare mothers and wives of imprisoned opposition activists .
"in 2005 , the european parliament awarded theladies in whitethe sakharov prize ."
"we join today with those heroic women , and we are thinking about them and their difficult situation ."
the next item is the joint debate on the following 
my report on the ecb's 2008 annual report was drafted in this context .
i hope that a good balance has been found .
the financial and economic crisis has seen the worst global economic decline since the 1930s .
most member states are experiencing rising budgetary deficits and debts .
i believe that the ecb has responded fairly well to the crisis .
the primary function of the ecb is to maintain price stability .
"instead , many banks have used the liquidity to buttress their own position ."
"to justified public revulsion , it has allowed them to make bonus payments as well ."
"however , I will leave it to my colleagues here perhaps to amplify on this ."
this is something to build upon .
the ecb is accountable to the citizens of europe through the european parliament .
we must strengthen that accountability .
the president cut off the speaker 
the economic situation is a matter of major concern for the citizens of europe and for all of us .
i would like to present the report against this background .
this is the price which we have to pay in order to emerge from the crisis .
the report's message in this respect is very clear .
we must return to the path taken by the stability and growth pact as quickly as possible .
we cannot pass on this level of debt to our children and grandchildren .
i would like to summarise briefly our proposals in this respect .
"firstly , we need effective instruments for economic coordination ."
"secondly , the structural dependency of the euro area on finite resources must be brought to an end ."
"thirdly , it is essential that the financial markets are effectively regulated after this crisis ."
"instead , individual member states are expected to use ridiculous interest rates in order to finance their debts ."
the report also calls for the implementation of a country by country reporting system for corporate income .
we are asking you to submit a corresponding proposal .
"however , this gives me the opportunity to discuss the current situation at the end of the debate ."
"first , on the economic developments and monetary policy over the past year ."
"until around april last year , economic activity was declining , month after month ."
"in particular , we scaled back the number , frequency and maturity of longer term refinancing operations ."
i therefore welcome the repeated support by the committee on economic and monetary affairs for our quarterly monetary dialogue .
we consider the ecb to be one of the world's most transparent central banks .
certain financial instruments which were introduced for hedging should not be misused for speculation .
let me say just a word on the outlook for emu during challenging times .
"an economic recovery is in progress , but this does not mean that the crisis is over ."
"for another , we are still facing numerous challenges regarding the reform of our financial system ."
"finance must play a constructive role , and not a destructive one , in our economies ."
the litmus test for a constructive role is that finance serves the real economy .
"to ensure such a role , we still need to improve the functioning of financial systems considerably further ."
"thus far , a great deal of attention has been focused on the banking sector ."
we have to contain systemic disruptions that lead to economic hardship for the people of europe .
"within europe's economic and monetary union , there is a clear allocation of responsibilities ."
"the commitment of the ecb , the strategy of the ecb and its track record are consistent ."
policy makers at the national level must keep public finances sound and their economies competitive .
"monetary union in europe is far more , in my opinion , than a monetary arrangement ."
it is a union of shared destiny .
the speaker added in french and german we share a destiny in common .
"this destiny is for our common good , and it is the vision of our founding fathers ."
monetary union is not a matter of convenience .
i believe we often play down the achievement that europe has attained .
we are often too quick to criticise our institutions and processes .
"but they have generally worked well , even in the most difficult times ."
i trust that european institutions and processes have remained effective during the financial crisis .
let me conclude .
the global financial crisis has brought fresh challenges to which we in europe have risen .
"today , europe faces further pivotal decisions ."
"for this we need strengthened surveillance as again was said by the rapporteurs , and strengthened cooperation ."
"we also need to revive the sense of common purpose , the shared ideals that motivated our founding fathers ."
their endeavour was visionary and all that we see in today's world confirms their lucidity .
"when we prepared our annual statement , we knew that the selected issues would be topical ."
"they might , however , have become somewhat too topical recently ."
"let me congratulate both rapporteurs , edward scicluna and sven giegold , for their excellent reports ."
"since 1999 , the euro area has mostly been an area of economic stability ."
it has shielded our citizens from economic turbulences .
this moment may indeed be a turning point in greek fiscal history and economic development .
the greek crisis has demonstrated the need for enhanced economic governance .
this was already recognised and the legal base provided in the lisbon treaty .
"therefore , an integrated and forward looking approach focused on policy action and clear operational arrangements is needed ."
i also count on your support in this matter .
we can also make better use of existing instruments .
"this has been used in the past , probably too rarely ."
that is the second core element of reinforced economic governance .
"by and large , I share the views of the rapporteur in this regard ."
"today , the worst may be over ."
the economic recovery is now in progress but it is still fragile and not self sustaining .
unemployment has not yet changed for the better .
"the same applies to the consolidation of public finances , which is a prerequisite for sustainable growth ."
these clouds will overshadow our economic landscape in the coming years .
we must do our utmost to clear the sky and bring back growth .
"therefore , this is indeed no time for business as usual ."
"instead , this is time for a change in step to promote sustainable growth and job creation ."
i have learnt two main lessons from this crisis .
"on the one hand , the economic and monetary union has shown how useful it is ."
"the euro , a stable common currency , has played the part of a real monetary shield ."
"the euro area has therefore become more attractive , as the case of iceland shows ."
"from this I draw the second lesson , which is that we should strengthen european economic governance ."
"today , the only genuine european economic policy is monetary policy ."
there is limited coordination of budget policies .
"reducing public debt remains a fundamental commitment , as it concerns our children's future ."
"let us be austere , but let us also be inventive ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mr giegold's report is particularly significant given the current macro economic debate ."
this crisis is far from behind us .
they will exacerbate unemployment and will fuel social tensions .
the giegold report has the merit of drawing attention to some of these macro economic imbalances .
"we held long discussions with them and in the end , agreed on many compromise amendments ."
i would like to talk to you today about the euro .
these two years of terrible global economic crisis have shown that the euro has firmly anchored us to stability .
"it is , in fact , the only major western currency that has not made its users poorer ."
the euro poses no risk to the mediterranean economies .
we in the euro area must not penalise the countries that export the most .
"nevertheless , under no circumstances must its export strength be weakened ."
those who do best cannot be penalised .
"i would like , starting from where we are today , to take a look forward ."
where are we ?
"second , we cannot ignore the fact that we already have huge and deepening social inequalities ."
so what we believe is that we should really switch gear .
of course .
what does that mean ?
greece has 4 % of its gdp going to military spending .
they have got an air force that is as big as the luftwaffe .
"i mean , how come ?"
it is such a tiny country and they are arming themselves like hell .
"but if we just look at the expenditure side , we will not succeed ."
"we need to rebalance tax income away from labour income towards other forms of income , including capital income ."
and we cannot do that just by asking countries to coordinate their policies .
we need more integration .
so I believe that europe is now at a critical juncture .
"the choice is between a higher degree of integration , not just coordination , and decline ."
the lesson that I take from copenhagen is not just that we missed the climate agreement .
it is that europe has proved to be irrelevant if it is not acting together .
"we spend too much time coordinating , too little time acting together ."
so that would be our contribution to this debate .
"currently , many would claim that the eurozone problem is one which should be solved by eurozone members ."
"however , the euro does not sit in isolation ."
"while they may be united by a common currency , attitudes towards saving and spending vary considerably ."
joining a monetary union did not unite completely different cultures and traditions of fiscal policy .
the uk perspective has a lot to say on differences in fiscal policy .
"fundamentally , money to fund the public sector does not magically appear ."
it comes from tax receipts from the private sector .
germany realises this .
"hence , it is now in a strong position for recovery ."
"ultimately , the public sector has done its job in the crisis ."
it bailed out the banks and stepped up when the private sector failed .
now it is the turn of the private sector to replenish the coffers .
"on the one hand , we are talking about a community with a common destiny ."
that is preposterous !
"most importantly , this would be an admission of failure which would amount to kowtowing to the financial sector ."
taking this route would be the equivalent of driving the eu project into a wall .
the euro cannot provide the answer to the different levels of productivity in the individual economies .
major exporters such as germany are forcing greek economic policy to its knees .
"therefore , this also represents a crisis in eu economic and competition policy ."
this is why we are calling for the ban on financial assistance for eu member states to be lifted .
this is what we are calling for .
the president cut off the speaker 
"mr president , 25 march is the birthday of both europe and greece ."
"on 25 march 1957 , the european union was born under the treaty of rome ."
"on 25 march 1821 , greece was born ."
many people will say it serves greece right and it should pay for its mistakes .
"yes , certain people must be called to account for this ."
"thank you , sir ."
your time has run out .
i would respectfully ask that you abide by the speaking time allotted to you .
"de mr president , I would like to raise a point of order ."
"however , inflation is also a cause for concern and you are making good progress in this area ."
"as an austrian , I would like to advise against the germany bashing that has been taking place here ."
everyone should be aware germany has been the source of a great deal of stability in the past .
it should not now be punished because it has achieved better results in many areas than other countries .
mr trichet and mr rehn were of the same opinion .
mr scicluna's report reflects this approach .
"like a tanker on the high seas , the ecb must stay on the correct course ."
this should be an important criterion for future assessments of other measures taken by the central bank .
the gravity of the situation has been accurately described .
"this morning , I have heard so many speeches exalting the virtues of the euro ."
adon abbondio europeis of no use to us .
"if europe does not show courage today , when will it have to show courage ?"
but there are indicators beyond the stability and growth pact that need respecting too .
greater fiscal coordination linked to macro economic stability is an option .
"but this has been tried , of course ."
remember the row in 2001 over the ecofin warning to ireland during a time of fiscal surplus .
so we know the lesson exerting discipline in times of surplus is even harder than policing deficit .
"and , just like in the financial markets , failure to do so ends in crisis ."
"this , too , does not necessarily have a deficit trigger ."
"often , it has simply been reinvested in assets bearing higher interest ."
and I dare say some of these were even recirculated on repo to the ecb .
"no doubt in some quarter , such activity is even viewed as deserving of a bonus ."
it identifies elements of social cohesion which are not present in similar debates in the european parliament .
the euro should be accompanied by a minimum social security indicator for social cohesion .
"that is clear from the various things being said in greece , much of which is inaccurate ."
"that is clear from eurostat statistics it was approximately 90 % in both 2007 and 200of course there is wastage , but people are also being recruited to the public sector in various forms ."
"obviously , there are matters which also concern the summit under way today here in brussels ."
applause 
"these days , the imf is the right organisation to help greece out of the crisis ."
"if that does not work , then we need to be decisive and cut the gordian knot ."
countries that are not playing by the rules of the euro area must leave the game .
"mr president , let us try and learn from this situation ."
"when it joined the euro , greece was as unpredictable as the oracle at delphi ."
the figures it submitted were unclear and unreliable .
that is turning the world on its head .
anyone who submits unsound figures cannot point accusing fingers at anybody else .
"if not , should you not have known that ?"
i hope you can give me a straight answer to that question .
the capitalist crisis has resulted in a spiralling deterioration in the living standards of the workers .
it is a harsh policy exercised solely on the basis of the criterion of the profitability of capital .
it has channelled over eur 1 trillion to the banks and monopoly groups .
let us bring it all down to earth just a little bit shall we ?
"unemployment , youth unemployment in the iberian peninsula and many eurozone countries is chronic ."
it has been at 30 40 % for years .
nothing to do with the crisis at all .
a complete disaster .
gdp per capita in the usa is miles ahead of the european union .
gdp in the pacific rim is miles ahead of the gdp in the union .
"no , the euro has not been successful at all ."
it is already failing .
it is already crumbling before our eyes .
just look at some economic basics .
there is no lender .
"this is impossible in global , in currency management , whether it is an optimal currency zone or not ."
there is no coordinated fiscal policy so it is doomed to failure and it is failing as we speak .
let me just remind everybody here about something else if I may .
far too many of us .
ro the mafia is the major cause of the crisis .
"i will give you a few examples from my own country , romania ."
"since 1990 , approximately 6 000 companies valued at eur 700 billion have been privatised fraudulently ."
"unfortunately , only eur 7 billion , or 1 % of this money , has been received so far ."
"this is no longer a market economy , but a jungle economy ."
"just like 100 years ago , the balkan peninsula is sitting on a powder keg ."
the flame of social protest may quickly spread from greece to the other countries in the region .
starvation is the most powerful electoral factor in history .
"however , there is one hope of salvation radical solutions are required at such an historic crossroads ."
"it is not under control the mafia needs to be , but under the ground ."
"mr rehn , I would like to remind you that you have some huge tasks ahead ."
we need a more automated system .
we do not need economic governance under the control of finance ministers .
this could be the result of the summit .
i would like to make two remarks about what mr trichet has said on the euro area .
"secondly , the eu has largely succeeded in balancing its accounts , thanks to the countries in surplus ."
they have to export their goods .
that is not sufficient .
we have enough to do ourselves with the budgetary consolidation .
it is important not to underestimate the work involved .
this is not a true european policy .
"therefore , I would like to wish the commission courage and give my warm thanks to the ecb ."
applause 
"without doubt , the basic responsibility for this situation lies with greece and it has fully assumed it ."
"however , there are other collective responsibilities ."
"the common currency has provided a great deal , but it also has serious weaknesses ."
"we share a common destiny , as mr trichet so rightly said ."
"the alternative , if it fails , would , of course , be a frightening prospect ."
the ecb has been a bastion of strength when the financial storms have hit .
greece's problems and those of other euro area countries cannot be blamed on the euro .
careless expansion of public expenditure will result in problems regardless of the choice of currency .
we would have had to deal with speculation and competitive devaluation among more than 20 national currencies .
the deficit is still extremely large .
i would like to finish by saying something about speculation .
"pl mr president , I shall avoid the military language which the previous speaker used ."
the language of war does not suit the style of banks .
only two are in euroland .
"my point of view , therefore , will be different ."
does this mean we are lazy ?
there is a certain contradiction here .
greece is currently going through a crisis because it entered that oasis of stability too soon .
we should avoid such inconsistency .
the economic situation in numerous countries is clearly negative .
unemployment is increasing in most countries .
the measures being taken to address deficits are exacerbating the crisis .
mr trichet and mr rehn and I am speaking institutionally did you not see the crisis coming ?
the signs were there .
"in my opinion , the problem in the european union and in greece is not one of sound finances ."
"as such , I would say to you that what is needed is a change to the stability pact ."
financial assistance for greece should come primarily from the international monetary fund imf .
the imf has itself said that it is in an excellent position to help greece .
the necessity and desirability of setting up an emf are dubious .
it is really up to the council now to make a move .
these are the conditions that have led to a crisis for job seekers in europe .
twenty member states currently have excessive deficits .
greater economic union may make the difference .
global imbalances need to be corrected .
the european union is one of the most balanced regions .
that could come under threat unless its competitiveness is strengthened and there is greater international monetary cooperation .
the efforts and courage of greece deserve clear and resolute support .
it is a question of common interest and uncertainty harms all europeans .
subsidiarity and solidarity are two sides of the same coin the european currency .
"i have repeated it in spanish , which is one of the european union's global languages ."
the public funds of many member states have declined as a result of this crisis .
"to deal with this issue , the irish government took decisive action in the years 2008 and 200unchecked , ireland's deficit was heading towards 14 % of gdp ."
the government's action stabilised the deficit at 11.6 % of gdp in 20the action taken by the government has gained recognition in international markets .
"in many ways , ireland is ahead of many other countries in its fiscal adjustment ."
the president cut off the speaker 
we have to ask whether some states should have entered the euro area as early as they did .
"european taxpayers in many countries may , today , pay a great deal for this haste ."
it would be good if we could draw some conclusions from this lesson for the future .
it is true that many are demanding economic governance .
the greek crisis is telling it is germany that has control and is imposing its demands .
"we cannot , therefore , introduce regulations that treat certain parts of the union less favourably than others ."
the ecb will have an important role in this area .
the pact's main aim was prevention .
it was meant to provide multilateral supervision of budgetary development using an early warning system .
estonia is practically the only eu member state that currently satisfies the maastricht criteria .
thank you .
"mr president , 2008 was an extremely important year for the european and indeed the global economy ."
"this was no easy year for the ecb , which had to face a number of challenges ."
i agree that 2008 was instrumental and that those responsible have risen to this occasion .
"quite clearly , I am sorry to hear this ."
this is what we must take into account .
we must take this into account for two reasons .
this is the spirit that we have to discover .
this is the magic panacea that we need .
the second pillar which cannot be overlooked and which we cannot do without is the matter of fiscal harmonisation .
"in the search for remedies , key indicators are the sustainability of public finances and the deficit ."
we just have to observe strict budget discipline in public finances .
"firstly , we should not devote the debate on public finances to issues relating to austerity alone ."
we also need to focus on what we can do to initiate growth and combat unemployment .
"in many countries , cuts in public expenditure are needed ."
there is still much to do in this regard .
transparency is not only an excellent way to counter harmful risk taking behaviour on the financial market .
the ecb should lead the way in this area and take immediate measures to make its work more transparent .
a good first step would be to begin to publish the minutes of the ecb council meetings .
openness should also be a key principle in the establishment of the european systemic risk board esrb .
we must not allow the financial crisis to slow down the switch to a green economy .
only by making these kinds of investments can we create growth that is sustainable in the long term .
"in 2009 , monetary instability could have weakened the political solidity of the european union ."
but for how much longer ?
solidarity goes hand in hand with solidity in the emotionally charged context of sovereign debt markets .
the political prevaricating of recent weeks has not only damaged greece .
it has seriously shaken confidence in the euro .
non assistance to countries in danger is undermining the monetary stability of the whole of the euro area .
"beyond emergencies , let us finally give the euro the instruments it needs ."
"we need representation outside the euro area at all levels , in all bodies , including international financial institutions ."
why is the president of the eurogroup not in the g20 ?
let us also accept that the new members want to join the euro area as quickly as possible .
"we must welcome them with enthusiasm , not with petty mindedness ."
contriving to exclude euro area members amounts to abandoning the ambition of a strong europe in the world .
this is the price of the euro's continued success .
"let us think about how this illness , which we call the crisis , arose ."
the cause of the crisis was activity which was contrary to market principles speculative activity .
"until now , financial markets were monitored and supervised mainly by state and national institutions ."
globalisation has led to the establishment of world financial institutions and a global finance market .
it is a pity that the warnings from the commission were too gentle .
"some member states behaved like children , hiding their misdeeds ."
this kind of behaviour cannot be the basis of community or our integration .
we must take action so that the costs of the crisis do not fall on the weakest and poorest .
european union solidarity obliges us also to support the countries which have been worst hit by the crisis .
"you have been competent , independent and consistent ."
you and your staff have been a calming influence in troubled times .
"mr rehn , you have made some very encouraging statements over the last few days ."
we should do everything possible to continue on the path that you have taken .
"the euro is a stabilising force , even in times of crisis ."
"on the contrary , it is part of the solution ."
there can be no reform without the euro .
there can be no appropriate restrictions on the objectives that we can set ourselves without the euro .
"greece cannot be given subsidies , but it wants support for implementing its reform and savings plan ."
no one has said that nothing could be done .
"we have a monetary union , but we do not have an economic union ."
"to achieve an economic union , we need the political will of the member states rather than advice ."
this is what we are calling on the member states to do and we expect them to show commitment .
we must continue on this route in the interests of the euro .
"pl mr president , last year was an extremely turbulent one for the euro area ."
"during this period , the world experienced its biggest economic crisis for years ."
the resolution we are considering at the moment is part of this debate .
i would like to draw attention to one aspect of it .
"therefore , let us not exclude the new member states from such an important debate ."
we have had thetwo speed europeslogan .
"my country , slovakia , is no exception to the rule ."
unemployment has risen above 13 % .
the vast majority of the population still feels positive about the euro .
we think it is important therefore to maintain the strength and prestige of the euro .
parliament must help the commission and the ecb in their efforts in order to avoid failure in this endeavour .
"this is , however , a strategic question , in which the council's committed support is indispensable ."
"support for economic activity , in particular , small and medium sized enterprises , was not coordinated either ."
that is true outside the eurozone as well as inside it .
my party is pleased that the uk remains outside the eurozone .
"however , keeping our own currency is only part of the answer ."
the single currency has not provided a solution to all the internal and external imbalances which have occurred .
those groups which are not responsible for the crisis must not now be made to bear the cost .
"if we do not invest in people , we will not have a future in europe ."
this is why I am calling for the emphasis to be put on the social aspect in future .
globalisation is compelling the euro area to play an effective role with regard to financial policy .
we are not over the difficult times .
we are not going back to business as usual .
we have to remain extremely alert .
"i also got the message on growth and jobs , which is a very strong message from parliament ."
i fully agree with that .
we absolutely need full and complete implementation of the stability and growth pact .
this is a key issue .
i do not want to elaborate more on greece and the various issues at stake .
"let me only say that greece has a role model , and the role model is ireland ."
i want to stress that .
you can trust us .
we can prove that .
this is not theory .
these are facts these are figures .
they must draw consequences from this nationally .
they benefit from belonging to the euro area .
we are a college .
the governing council is the pertinent entity .
it is the governing council which counts .
i have listened to your views very carefully .
i would like to consult you and move forward soon with concrete proposals .
there are two lines of action in reinforcing economic governance which are of the essence .
binding policy recommendations will also be used in this regard .
this is needed to prevent an accumulation of imbalances .
"rapporteur . mr president , a few points first ."
we have seen that the recent recession is proving to be a challenge .
however the tensions in the euro area are not new and are well known .
we know we are not yet an optimal currency area .
"however , that is why we have to be innovative ."
we have to follow sensible economic principles and policies .
"of course , they must be couched in line with european social cohesion principles ."
we know that there are several options before us .
some can be executed in the short term and others in the medium term .
we need to ensure that a crisis of this magnitude does not occur again .
"rapporteur . mr president , following this debate , I would like to make three quick points ."
there were differences which were quite clear and I think we have to be careful .
"some countries had cost increases which were too high , and it is good that you are acting ."
i urge you not to be blind in one eye and I urge my colleagues likewise .
"look at greece and the stability programme , which was praised ."
"if you praise the irish efforts , you cannot compare it to the situation in greece ."
people in greece feel they should not suffer because of things they have not caused .
"otherwise , the programme will be not accepted and it will also fail for economic reasons ."
we have to make sure that the programme is socially just and it is not yet socially just .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place on thursday , 25 march 20written statements rule 149 "
in writing . there are lessons to be learnt from the current eurozone crisis .
better coordination would enhance euro area stability .
"the sgp needs to be respected strictly , but I think it should be revised ."
the preventive arm should be strengthened .
"without the functioning eurozone , overcoming the crisis would have been much slower and uneven ."
this applies also for those member states which have not yet joined the eurozone .
there is a general agreement that the economic crisis was a logical outcome of a widespread crisis of values .
those who have joined the eurozone are expected to bear higher responsibility for balancing their expenses and incomes .
it does not make sense to take the role of supposed victims of financial speculation or economic mafias .
almost all european economies have sinned against the principles of sound and balanced fiscal policy .
the first cause of this justified criticism is the objectives of the bank .
"from the moment when an economic crisis erupts , however , it is a very different story ."
all of this only confirms the harmfulness of the current concept of the european central bank .
the report must therefore be rejected .
the european union as a whole and the euro area in particular are in a grave situation .
greece is on the verge of bankruptcy and spain and portugal are also in difficulties .
"because of the seriousness of the situation , new proposals are constantly being made ."
"on the one hand , people are talking about giving the european monetary fund extensive rights of intervention ."
"however , taking another huge step towards a centralised european superstate will not solve the existing problems ."
"on the contrary , it will further exacerbate them ."
the european union should stop exposing itself voluntarily to the problems of us financial policy .
the euro is an anchor to which the member state economies are tied .
actions by any member state which weaken the euro are unacceptable .
i consider it essential that every country fulfils the conditions set up for the euro area .
second european roma summit motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
* * *
this is in paragraph 108 of the ruling .
"consequently , it believes that I can no longer cite prejudice ."
the fact remains that it is ordering our parliament to pay two thirds of the legal costs .
this decision therefore constitutes a scathing rejection of the partisan tactics that deprived me of parliamentary immunity .
"under pressure , the rapporteur resorted to a crude procedural trick ."
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund lithuania / manufacture of furniture 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund lithuania / manufacture of wearing apparel 
report on the 2009 annual statement on the euro area and public finances 
appointment of the vice president of the european central bank 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors mr milan martin cvikl sl 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors ms rasa budbergyt lt 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors ms kersti kaljulaid ee 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors mr igors ludborzs lv 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors mr szabolcs fazakas hu 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors mr ladislav balko sk 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors mr louis galea mt 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors mr augustyn kubik pl 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors mr jan kinst cz 
nomination of a member of the court of auditors mr eoin oshea ie 
recommendation to the council on the 65th session of the united nations general assembly 
second european roma summit
before the vote 
"it becomes the consequence of paragraph mr president , thank you very much ."
"we have two amendments , one of which is an amendment to the amendment ."
i would like to introduce both of them .
we would like the wordsthe council andto be deleted .
the final result of the amendment which is currently under discussion would then be 
our text would read 
schengen borders code with regard to surveillance of external maritime borders
before the adoption of the draft resolution 
"we cannot open a debate on that now , mr busuttil ."
"you have the floor , but we cannot open a debate ."
this is why we rejected them .
that is why we should support this resolution .
"if you vote for this , you are not ."
it is pure clarity .
we shall now proceed to the vote .
priorities for the 2011 budget section iii commission 
voting time
we shall now proceed to the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
welcome
we warmly welcome mr tabarki and the members of his delegation .
we therefore wish you an enjoyable and fruitful visit .
budget guidelines 2011 other sections 
agricultural product quality policy what strategy to follow ? 
the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation 
before the vote 
"as agreed , I will now read the second part of the english version ."
mr guerrero indicated that it did indeed affect the second part of paragraph 34 
now it is all clear .
the vote took place 
parliament accepted the oral amendment 
before the vote on paragraph 22 
"fr mr president , we have brought to your attention an oral amendment concerning paragraph fr mr president , you called for applause for the tunisian delegation a moment ago ."
"de mr president , I would like to raise a point of order ."
i am very happy about the way that the vote has gone .
"however , this was essentially an own initiative report and a different procedure has been agreed in this case ."
now we have been allowed to have individual votes on an own initiative report .
we need to resolve this or all own initiative reports will have individual votes in future .
could you perhaps ask the committee on constitutional affairs to clarify this issue ?
"otherwise , the interpretation made by the house's services will defeat the whole object of the reform ."
"mr swoboda , it can be done ."
"it is possible to request split votes , in accordance with the procedure that the groups themselves sought ."
"at any rate , everything can be revised ."
"it could be revised in the future , but for the moment , that is how it is ."
ecb annual report for 2008 
voting time continued 
council positions at first reading see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
explanations of vote
the causes of this situation are varied .
this is unacceptable .
that is a fact .
the economic and social disadvantages of the roma have yet again been ascribed to so called intolerance and discrimination .
their values and norms are directly at odds with our own .
we can observe similar tendencies in our countries now .
i disagree with that .
the contrary is true .
"however , this parliament is calling for even more so called decentralised agencies ."
"i repeat that , as I see it , we have too many of these already ."
there are some that should be abolished before we go creating a new one .
next year's budget must not be drawn up as if these were ordinary times .
"unfortunately , the economic crisis is not yet over , and we cannot ignore it ."
the european union is very good at spending money at spending other people's money .
we are much more careful with the latter than with the former .
that explains what is happening in europe today .
all of the member states are looking for budget reductions .
why ?
eu citizens and discerning consumers must therefore be fully informed as to their advantages .
i therefore fully support the introduction of a european quality logo for products originating exclusively from the eu .
the logo officially recognises the efforts of european farmers and provides protection for intellectual property at the international level .
i firmly believe that this will help many rural areas which have no other development opportunities .
there should be a clear divide .
these are the reasons why I voted for this report .
"mr president , may I also thank mr scottà for the work in this important report ."
it also supports the introduction of comprehensive and compulsory legislation forplace of farminglabelling .
we have done a good job .
my compliments to those members who have worked on this dossier .
"mr president , in principle , I have no problem with the idea of quality logos ."
we see quality logos in a number of areas of our life .
just so long as this is not being used as an excuse to override the choices of the consumer .
"human life is sacred from conception until natural death , and therefore I could not support this report ."
it is poor people and poor countries that are suffering the most as a result of the economic crisis .
"we should give all the help we can with regard to public investment , particularly in these countries ."
it is not for this place to determine whether access to abortion is a right or not .
it is a matter for national governments to legislate .
"nl mr president , as parliament , we ought to think twice before making proposals ."
"we ought to be making proposals for policies that will solve problems , not exacerbate them ."
that was my first point .
i will be very brief with my second point .
reproductive health organisations support abortion as one of the ways of controlling the birth rate .
"in my opinion , the eu wastes financial resources on birth control , which does not solve poverty ."
i honour life and I also respect the principle of subsidiarity in relationships with developing countries .
that is why I have voted against paragraph 7 and against the entire report .
i think it was john maynard keynes who wrotehe who controls the currency controls the country.
i promise that is the only time I am going to quote keynes approvingly .
"in fact , let me give you a higher and better authority even than john maynard keynes ."
"i refer you to the gospel of st matthew , chapter I am sure you will remember this ."
our lord is asked whether it is proper to pay taxes to rome .
"he says why tempt ye me , ye hypocrites ?"
show me the tribute money.
and they brought unto him a penny .
"and [ jesus ] saith unto them ,whose is this image and superscription ? "
they say unto him caesar's.
and so we have seen that the euro leads to common economic government .
thank heaven we had the foresight to keep the pound .
"thank you for blessing this morning's session , mr hannan ."
but let us look at some of the things that we propose .
"de mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I have voted against this report for two reasons ."
this does not change the fact that abortion means killing an unborn child .
"mr president , I voted against this report because it is a silly report ."
it is an irrelevant report .
you will now collect about usd 6 trillion worth of capital .
why are we not working to keep that capital in those countries making those countries richer ?
"no , what did we go and do just now ?"
"so , like other speakers , we objected to that and voted against that section ."
"da mr president , we in the danish people's party voted against this report ."
we want to decide for ourselves what economic policy we wish to pursue .
it is the danish electorate and not economists in frankfurt who should decide this .
written explanations of vote
this will involve the united kingdom being given a legal obligation to allow imports from these countries .
this will involve competition for our farmers and a further erosion of sovereignty .
"as a result of this pairing of good and bad proposals , we decided to abstain ."
"now , imitation products must be clearly labelled ."
it is important to put in place provisions relating to animal health and hygiene .
in writing . I votedyesat the final vote on this resolution .
we greens agree with the procedure .
the european union can do a great deal here .
"this has been leading to redundancies there too , exacerbating the region's social situation ."
explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 170 of the rules of procedure 
the large majority voting in favour in the competent parliamentary committee confirms the measure's apparent soundness .
"given this , I see no reason to vote against the mobilisation of the fund in this case ."
this support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocations that occur in the context of globalisation .
the sums are not big for the eu but they will alleviate the hardships lithuanian workers are facing .
we believe that member states should help their own redundant workers .
we must therefore vote for the fund to be used appropriately for other member states .
it is the thought of the lithuanian workers sacrificed on the altar of globalisation that prompts me to abstain .
"however , what little is given may relieve their pain ."
the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is still intolerable nonetheless .
"in the kingdom of eurocrats , a clear conscience comes cheap ."
growth and solidarity those are the two key words that must guide our european economic strategy .
"growth , because , without it , we will be unable to take up the social challenge ."
"solidarity , because it is the raison d être of european integration and will be its future ."
"this right is enshrined in the treaties , including the treaty of lisbon ."
i voted for the 2009 annual statement on the euro area and public finances .
"furthermore , we must pay particular attention to the problems associated with fiscal discipline ."
"at the same time , member states and the european commission must work together to reduce fiscal imbalances ."
the consolidation of public finances is a vital prerequisite for ensuring sustainable economic growth .
the irish labour party does not support the introduction of ccctb .
i abstained from voting on this particular report .
the specific problem is not one ofsoundfinances .
the need for stricter regulation and supervision of the financial crisis is as urgent as ever .
a ccctb is not about a common tax rate .
taxation of companies is the exclusive responsibility of each member state .
in writing . I do not support paragraph 29 as it calls for the introduction of ccctb .
"clearly , this europe is yet another enemy of the people ."
we must learn lessons from the mistakes made so that they can be avoided in the future .
"in my speech , I spoke about the situation in the euro area and public finances in 200the verdict expressed by my vote has a broader context ."
"as predicted by economists , 2009 was the most difficult for crisis hit member states ."
the costs of fighting the crisis have led to a drastic worsening of the situation of public finances .
"for the euro area , the financial crisis has proved to be the greatest challenge in its history ."
the crisis has ruthlessly laid bare the weaknesses of the common currency system .
we only need to carry out that process rationally .
mr constâncio has an impressive cv .
mr constâncio had a tough hearing before the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs .
"we will continue to fight these policies , regardless of who is involved in their management ."
we would so very much like to believe him .
three such important incidents are a lot for one man .
i made the provocative comment that this is a bit like giving sticks of dynamite to a pyromaniac .
these words were echoed loudly in portugal .
i spent several months in 2008 participating in a committee of enquiry for the portuguese parliament .
"it discovered and reported serious failures of supervision , which resulted in the nationalisation of a bank in 200i am referring to banco português de negócios and banco privado português ."
i supported the nomination of mrs rasa budbergytas a member of the european court of auditors .
"if appointed to this office , she promises to carry out her work according to two principles ."
i am convinced that the auditor has proved her competence and professionalism in the area of auditing .
i am sure that her faultless work will be an excellent contribution to the entire european union .
objections by anyone who does not wish to see the appointment in question take place are understandable .
"that being the case , my abstention is justified ."
in writing . the vote in favour of mr fazakas is disappointing .
it sets a serious precedent .
i voted together with the epp against mr fazakasconfirmation as a member of the court of auditors .
this was no ordinary vote .
mr fazakas is suspected of being an ex collaborator of the communist secret services .
the hungarian press produced a document regarding this .
a number of opinions were heard that opposed anypunishmentagainst mr fazakas .
they asked for the past not to be revived .
this is wrong .
the past is not dead .
tens of millions of eastern europeans still live a life troubled by the communist horrors .
this would be a recipe for the politics of diminished responsibility .
public office would lose dignity .
"anyone , however corrupt or immoral , could stand for public office ."
the perpetrators of the communist indignity should not be part of a democratic order they tried to suppress .
mr fazakas hid his past and lied when asked about it .
this lack of honesty should not be rewarded .
he is currently undersecretary of state at the ministry of regional development .
"mr kubik performed very well during the european parliament hearing , and his candidature has not raised any doubts ."
"in view of this , I decided to endorse his candidacy ."
it operates with complete independence .
in writing . I fully endorse these recommendations .
the eu and its member states are significant contributors to the un's budget .
i believe that an eu seat in an enlarged security council should remain a goal of the european union .
the ambition to gain an eu seat within an enlarged security council has to be pursued .
the member states should make every effort to have this matter included in the assembly's agenda .
there are many issues of interest at global level .
"any attempt to reduce , weaken or postpone the promises made must be fought ."
it is therefore important to attempt to reach agreement between developed and developing countries on speeding up progress .
"in addition , another crucial question is assistance in maintaining order and in rebuilding a disaster hit country ."
"i find it impossible to vote for this text , although I do admit that it has certain qualities ."
it is true that it promotes the non proliferation of nuclear weapons and the control of all weapons .
it is true that it promotes the abolition of capital punishment .
"reform of the development cooperation system , which is covered in the report , must also be supported ."
this needs to be tackled urgently as the current development aid policy can be seen to have failed .
"development aid must be reviewed , reorganised and restructured together with the developing countries ."
"for this reason , I abstained during the final vote ."
"furthermore , the report consistently links civil and military instruments , which is something that I cannot support ."
only once we have found a common european approach on european roma issues will the strategy be actively implemented .
"in romania , according to some estimates , the roma minority amounts to more than 2 million ."
"this is larger than the hungarian minority and , some would logically say , stronger ."
this fact may also be the reason that all the national social inclusion programmes have completely failed .
education is the key to the integration process .
"by offering education and training , we are fighting exclusion , unemployment and discrimination ."
"we are also guaranteeing a society that is more fair , more creative and more dynamic ."
"protecting fundamental rights and creating a common area of freedom , security and justice are objectives of european integration ."
it is important to adopt a common position on structural and pre accession funding policy .
"the members of this ethnic minority continue to suffer discrimination and social exclusion , despite efforts to integrate them ."
the eu has been supporting the member states in their efforts to implement effective policies .
there must be discussion of the results in april at the second european roma summit in córdoba .
it will fall to sociologists and historians to assess the causes and consequences of the issues surrounding the roma .
it is demanded of politicians that they be capable of doing something for the communities that they serve .
genericintegrationis not enough .
"it is for these reasons that I abstained on the resolution , and dissented from my political group ."
"however , parliament has asked the commission to draw up new proposals on the social inclusion of the roma ."
"concerted efforts at community level are necessary , including financial contributions ."
"today , we are talking about the 10 or 12 million roma in the eu ."
when will there finally be a policy that serves europeans first ?
decisive steps must be taken to bring an end to discrimination .
"simply pumping money into the roma settlements will not do any good , as past experience has shown ."
"in principle , the measures for combating poverty in eastern europe make sense ."
"for this reason , I have voted against the report ."
they must start by introducing their children and young people into the european school system .
"discrimination against the roma people was , for years , one of europe's biggest taboos ."
"in recent years , this has been changing ."
measures taken to combat discrimination against the roma continue to be insufficient .
this problem is often neglected .
this has affected many of the 10 12 million representatives of the roma community in the european union .
the european structural funds offer a huge opportunity for achieving the roma population's social inclusion .
"however , the procedural and content aspects involved have , unfortunately , made it difficult to utilise this opportunity ."
the roma are not included among the target groups favoured by such funding programmes .
the resolution calls on european institutions to make a coordinated and strategic contribution to including europe's roma population .
there is contradictory legal advice about whether or not it already has such power .
"however , this resolution imposed rules and guidelines that would impede this function ."
"in this draft decision , the council exceeds its executive powers ."
facilities such as this should not be set in motion .
"to this end , the commission decided to submit a draft decision based on the comitology procedure ."
the opinion of parliament's legal service is very clear .
the commission exceeded its powers of implementation .
this is not merely a technical procedure .
"according to mrs malmström's own words , this is an initiative with great political significance and practical implications ."
i voted in favour of this report on the priorities for budget 20support should be given to programmes that help young people who are starting a new business .
"young people , science and innovation are at the heart of the priorities of the next european union budget ."
investing in young people is investing in the future .
this investment must be carried out in a way that is coordinated between the various policies .
young people with degrees and qualifications are increasingly affected by unemployment .
"commitment to young people , innovation and science is the key to making europe a world leader once again ."
"today , the danish social democrats voted in favour of the priorities for the 2011 budget ."
we swedish social democrats chose today to vote in favour of the priorities for the 2011 budget .
we largely agree with the priorities stated in the report .
"although they have been grouped together under the so called new2020 strategy, these are old guidelines ."
"this will oblige even the qualified to flit between insecure jobs , alternating them with the inevitable unemployment ."
"that being the case , our only response to this report can be to vote against it ."
"however , this is neither the only way nor inevitable ."
we tried to demonstrate just that with the various proposals that we tabled during the debate .
also worthy of note is the comprehensive approach to the question of young people .
"however , to be quite honest , this should have been a constant concern over the years ."
i also think that young people are extremely important at the moment and in the eu's future .
this must also be reflected in the budgetary priorities .
young people are at the heart of european social and inclusion strategies .
i shall vote against this report on priorities for the 2011 budget .
the latter implements the dogmatic and harmful eurocratic policies that I oppose throughout europe and the world .
i cannot reasonably vote for a budget that endorses so many potential disasters .
"furthermore , both member states and the eu must invest in education and the development of young people ."
"i did , of course , vote in favour ."
today's vote was exceptional for two reasons .
"firstly , it is the first budget adopted under the rules of the treaty of lisbon ."
"secondly , it was the european parliament which presented its proposals for priorities first , and not the commission ."
"the rapporteur very pertinently referred , in her document , to the question of young people and education ."
"the lack of sufficient reference to this matter in previous years is , today , particularly visible ."
the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon means greater powers for parliament .
"this budget introduces long term guidelines for building policy , which could lead to reduced costs in the future ."
"additionally , rigour and transparency must be ensured in managing the funds made available to the various institutions ."
i am happy with the report's cautionary aspect .
the treaty of lisbon has given parliament new responsibilities .
"this situation means additional administrative work , with the result that members need qualified staff to act as advisors ."
in writing . I voted in favour of this important report .
"i therefore advocate a move towards a zero based budget , which allows efficiency and savings ."
"in order to better achieve this objective , it is urgent that a long term building policy be set ."
that is why I voted for the 2011 budget guidelines included in this report .
explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 170 of the rules of procedure 
i also consider how the report deals with environmental protection and animal welfare to be positive .
it is there to serve producers and consumers .
in writing . I would like to commend my colleagues in the agricultural committee for this initiative report .
the quality of our agricultural products is something that needs to be capitalised on .
it will help customers and small businesses alike .
it could be particularly beneficial to our agri food sector .
there is a clear link between product quality and the origin of the raw materials .
the proposal for aplace of farminglabel will indicate where the raw materials come from .
the traditional speciality guaranteed and organic farming schemes must also be retained .
i voted for the report because I support better protection for european products globally .
"this guarantees , at the same time , protection for the intellectual property rights for products ."
"however , the eu has , unfortunately , commercial partners who do not have legislation in this area ."
the subject of quantitative production management has been deliberately swept under the carpet in the commission's communication .
"this applies not only to milk production , but also to wine growing in particular ."
"therefore , I absolutely cannot vote for it ."
i noted the intention to move away from the logic of productivism .
"however , I do not wish to overlook the importance of promoting such concepts ."
the quality of european agricultural products constitutes a piece of heritage that is respected worldwide .
that is why I voted in favour .
"with no sense of fondness , they can always resort to chocolate without cacao ."
citizens have the right to protection .
this report emphasises the central role played by high quality agricultural products in consumer protection .
it also highlights support for traditional regional products and for small and medium sized agricultural businesses .
"for this reason , I have voted in favour of the report ."
"the eu rightly has the highest standards for agro foodstuffs , for the benefit of european consumers ."
"however , compliance with imported products to equivalent quality specifications remains a problem ."
i am in favour of labelling all primary agricultural products with the place of production .
"for this reason , I have voted against this amendment ."
i voted for the report on the future of food quality policy .
i come to the important question of geographical indications and traditional specialities .
"for this reason , we must protect them ."
in writing . sv the eu should have strong consumer protection .
clear common rules create the conditions for a functioning market on equal terms within the eu .
"however , I voted against the report on agricultural product quality policy what strategy to follow ? ."
the main reason for this is that the report violates the principle of subsidiarity .
"in my opinion , protected geographical indications receive too great an emphasis in the report ."
this is more than a question of justice it is a question of common sense .
in writing . I fully support this report .
financial aid alone cannot ensure economic progress in developing countries .
"thus , the commission should urge the reform of international development cooperation ."
"moreover , I believe that assistance to developing countries should be constantly adapted to the circumstances in those countries ."
"i voted for this report , since we must help developing countries , particularly during this difficult economic period ."
"furthermore , it looked forward with relish to the creation of various forms of political and economic world governance ."
issues such as sustainable development and green growth must be strategic priorities for the eu .
i call for additional funds to be earmarked for developing countries .
those who did not cause this crisis but are the most affected urgently need help .
"the european union and the developed countries must respond quickly , firmly and effectively ."
i welcome the improved borrowing facilities for the poorest countries conceded by the financial institutions .
"it is not enough , however ."
i support this report's calls for a sustained increase in development aid .
the latter are now inclined to reduce their development aid to face up to their own difficulties .
developing countries are thus paying twice for the mess caused by unregulated global capitalism .
it supports cancelling the debt of the least developed countries .
the european union has a moral duty to implement these new tools of international solidarity without delay .
"for us liberals , investment in developing countries is dear to our hearts ."
"they must not result in dependency , which could have negative effects on growth , salaries and employment ."
it must therefore be guaranteed that development tools and policies will allow effective development .
this requires more coordinated action at bilateral and multilateral level .
"we must , however , point out some features of the report that are negative and even contradictory ."
he who owes his entire fortune to speculation .
this text supports the implacable logic of liberal dogmatism .
it is therefore harmful .
i voted against .
i voted against this report for several reasons .
"also , the decision regarding the so called right to sexual and reproductive health ."
the most serious financial and economic crisis since the 1930s has hit europe hard .
another cause of the crisis is a globalisation concept that has made complete deregulation its highest priority .
the countries of europe are getting themselves ever deeper into debt in order to restart their economies .
we must give the developing countries the chance to emerge from the crisis under their own steam .
traditional development aid has largely failed in its purpose .
"instead of resulting in a reduction in development aid for developing countries , this situation should cause an increase ."
"apart from temporary aid , other measures are also needed which will change the architecture of world economic governance ."
these measures should be correlated with action to end tax havens .
all these paragraphs were adopted by comfortable majority .
"in addition , developing countries are also the hardest hit by the effects of climate change ."
the euro area has faced an economic crisis of great magnitude during the last two years .
"the exception to this , greece , came about due to systemic errors compounded over time and kept hidden ."
the impact of the economic crisis has been felt significantly harder outside the eu's euro area .
"i voted against the ecb report for 200however , the report continues to defend the ecb and its guidelines , even making major contradictions ."
that is why we voted against it .
"above all , we are not doing anything concrete to change the system ."
this is a mistake their prospective replacements would be just asworld compatibleas they are .
in writing . there is not much to say on this report that is not self explanatory .
this is a dramatic statement of the need for responsible and moral financial management .
this report calls for greater transparency which I am sure the majority of meps will support
in writing . I and my labour colleagues strongly support the work of the rapporteur edward scicluna .
"clearly , this europe is yet another enemy of the people ."
we must learn lessons from the mistakes made so that they can be avoided in the future .
it should be pointed out that the treaty of lisbon has made the ecb an eu institution .
"like the vast majority of this house , I voted in favour of this report ."
the ecb annual report 2008 reflects the causes and circumstances of the crisis well .
the ecb had to tackle a crisis which had hit the european economy severely .
rising budget deficits in member states combined with growing debt are the primary macro economic consequences of the crisis .
has the ecb fulfilled its role ?
it is hard to be sure .
"i think , however , that this instability can be explained by the surprise which the crisis caused ."
"from october 2008 onwards , the ecb's monetary policy can be described as active and flexible ."
the ecb adopted a different strategy for the crisis than other leading central banks around the world .
we are still waiting for the results of these actions .
"europe is coming out of the crisis , but the situation is still uncertain ."
"is the ecb ready for the possibility of another crisis , a possibility which is seen by some economists ?"
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
resumption of the session
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 march 20statements by the president
"ten days ago in moscow , more people died at the hands of terrorists ."
the european parliament condemns and has always condemned acts of violence of this sort .
"last friday , it was broadcast for the first time on russian public television ."
applause 
"mr barroso is unable to attend , today , for important family reasons ."
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting
the minutes of the sitting of 25 march 2010 and the documents which were adopted are available for viewing .
the minutes have been approved .
"it mr president , you have remembered the victims of the attacks in russia ."
i think it is only right that we remember those victims too .
"you are right , mr speroni ."
i agree .
we remember all victims with great pain .
"we also sympathise with the victimsfamilies and friends , and with the countries where these things happen ."
this is why I mentioned it .
"however , you are absolutely right , mr speroni ."
"thank you , mr speroni , for pointing this out to me ."
thank you very much .
conclusions of the european council meeting 25 26 march 2010 debate 
allow me to start with the latter point .
"indeed , prior to our meeting , there appeared to be a wide divergence of views ."
the union's capacity to find a compromise remains intact .
it is fundamental to our existence .
the european central bank also agreed .
those measures were requested by the informal european council of 11 february .
two further aspects of the statement have given rise to much comment .
"first , the european council wants to draw lessons from this crisis ."
that is why it created a task force under my authority .
it will present its conclusions before the end of this year .
the european council will take the final political decisions .
i intend to give a high priority to this work .
the greek case highlighted the limitations of the current fiscal surveillance mechanism in the euro area .
we must explore all possible ways to reinforce fiscal discipline and propose a framework for crisis resolution .
a strengthening of our mechanisms is essential .
"without more economic convergence , we will jeopardise the common currency and the common market ."
this discussion is crucial .
budgetary discipline is not sufficient .
behind budgetary problems lie economic problems .
let me make it very clear that there is no divergence here in what we are seeking to achieve .
the european council is neither the executive nor the legislative power of the union .
this applies also to economic policy .
"here , I can report steady progress , which we will pursue further at the june european council ."
"finally , promoting social inclusion , in particular through the reduction of poverty ."
the last two of these five targets education and social inclusion gave rise to some comment .
that is true and there is no intention whatsoever to change that fact .
"it will be the result of our efforts , not an instrument ."
it corresponds to the profound aspiration of peoples for fairness in our economy .
we ignore it at our peril .
"the next meeting , in bonn , should set the road map for taking the negotiations forward ."
cop 2 in cancun must produce concrete decisions and must address remaining gaps .
we will pursue internal work as well .
let me assure you that I am neither .
i had hoped that my start as permanent president of the european council would have been easier .
the two coming years will be difficult .
"i am fully aware that the worst of the recession is over , but not the problems ."
this means there can be nobusiness as usualover the coming two years .
that will also be the case for the european parliament .
but let us be frank .
there were not many people who would have predicted this outcome .
i will start with the financial stability mechanism and then move on to the europe 2020 strategy .
"regarding the financial stability mechanism , the truth is we were moving in uncharted territory ."
but let us be frank about another point as well .
the question was not whether there would be a response .
the question was what the response could and should be .
"as I said , there was no initial consensus among the member states in this respect ."
in particular the commission ensured that any mechanism should be placed in a community context .
you all know that it took sustained work and complex negotiations to achieve the solution that ultimately proved acceptable .
with this we now have a workable mechanism in place and ready to use .
it is a prudent safety net .
this is what we needed and this is what we have got .
the commission is satisfied with the final shape of the mechanism .
it may not be perfect .
"it is surely unprecedented , although designed in full respect of the treaties ."
and its core features retain the essentials .
the institutions keep the role of triggering the mechanism .
"the right arrangements have been made to involve the imf , within the framework of the euro area ."
for this we will be using the new opportunities already provided by the lisbon treaty .
let me now turn to the discussion of the europe 2020 strategy .
delivery will require a collective effort by all stakeholders at all levels .
they exemplify our shared european ambition and provide a point around which collective efforts can be shaped .
the commission's view on the matter is also very clear .
"second , the commission rejects suggestions that there can be no meaningful target here ."
we will continue to refine the clear and methodologically sound approach we have advanced .
the commission is confident that a consensus can be built around it between now and june .
the commission is determined to ensure that this is not the case .
"employment policy is of overwhelming importance , but it can never reach out to all sectors of society ."
what about children ?
how are you going to treat pensioners ?
what kind of solutions are we looking for if it comes to the marginalised communities ?
"in doing so , we will of course respect the distribution of competences as provided for in the treaties ."
europe 2020 is not about one level acting at the expense of the other .
it is about making all levels work well and together as a whole .
a final word on the other issues which have been discussed during the european council .
"as you know , not all the eu member states have a seat of their own in the gin the commission's view , the european union must continue to act as a driver for this ambition ."
it should also underline again how concluding the doha round would be a huge boost for the world economy .
member states agreed that this remains right at the top of our list of challenges .
this means keeping up the momentum of international efforts and you know that this is not always easy .
but we have the right springboard .
we have the track record of action inside the eu .
and the european council reaffirmed the eu's commitment to fast start financing to help developing countries .
what we now need is to be determined and consistent .
the commission acknowledges that parliament is already engaged in this effort .
as you know my colleague commissioner connie hedegaard has already embarked on a programme of outreach .
we need to cement the advances made in the copenhagen accord .
this seems promising .
the way this is fleshed out in coming months and years will be key .
"after all , as far as our citizens in the european union are concerned , promises do not count ."
the only things that matter to our citizens are the results .
"the urgency is great , and decisiveness and energy are the order of the day ."
solidarity and responsibility rightly take centre stage in this plan .
greece will have to abide by its agreements by actually implementing the reform plans .
can greece restore confidence on the financial markets ?
this will be crucial to resolving the crisis .
"let us look , primarily , at greece ."
that is down to the council .
"if you look at the market , you will see that it has reacted ."
the message that has come from the council is not a positive one .
the council is always keen to delay issues and discussions and proposals .
that is not a solution .
the council must find solutions .
that is why the outcome of the council in relation to greece is completely unsatisfactory .
the situation with europe 2020 is similar .
"the commission's proposals had their downsides , but they also had their positive sides ."
"we were not exactly thrilled , because we felt that several elements were missing ."
what does the council then do to europe 2020 ?
it tears several parts from it .
then there are heads of state or government who saythis is not a matter for us.
applause 
"mr van rompuy , you mentioned that this was your first formal european council meeting ."
you will have a second european council in june .
i wish you every success for that european council .
we will give you hope again that europe can still be a good thing !
the first concerns the mechanism which the council decided on for greece and about which I have serious doubts .
applause 
"this did not start yesterday , but a week ago now ."
that is not the way to help greece .
"greece has to take the measures which are necessary , but not with bilateral loans ."
"that mechanism is not in fact helping greece , but punishing it at the moment ."
that is the only way to help the greek government achieve its targets .
"at the same time , the greek government naturally has to stop its internal struggles ."
we need that now .
we need a courageous package .
only the european commission can do this .
the council cannot do it not even the president of the council .
applause 
my group feels that three main elements are needed in that package .
"we need that fund as fast as possible , in order to increase the effectiveness of the stability pact ."
"that is not a punishment for the biggest country , germany ."
the technical means to do this exist and can be made applicable .
the third thing we need is a bolder 2020 strategy .
i fully support what mrs wortmann kool said a few moments ago about our needing a stronger governance method .
it is not through the open coordination method that we will fulfil our goals .
"ultimately , the result was the horse trading that mr verhofstadt has already very ably described ."
the rate thus went up immediately after the council's decision .
"if it were a net , it would have to bear weight ."
applause 
"this behaviour , to my mind , is not right ."
"instead , I conclude that more mutual responsibility and more solidarity must be accompanied by mutual intervention ."
yet the summit failed to secure all of this and I believe it also failed to provide rudimentary undertakings .
is she supposed to go empty handed ?
does she actually have to go to bonn with what she is being given to bring to the table ?
it is embarrassing !
it is once again the time for lady no chancellor merkel to strut her stuff .
there has thus been so much negative energy from germany !
i have read that many members found themselves wishing that they had helmut kohl back when this was happening .
"i have to say , I was not one of them ."
"mr verhofstadt , I am happy to accept your call for more work on europe 20so far , after all , three groups in this house have worked exclusively on this ."
of course not all our member states have yet chosen or will ever choose to join the single currency .
certainly the current crisis has revealed some of the underlying problems with the present design of the eurozone .
we have already heard dangerously loose talk about the need for more european economic governance .
such a centralisation of power in brussels is not the solution and would not be acceptable .
"turning to the europe 2020 initiative , we welcome the first tentative steps taken by the council ."
we do not support all aspects of the initiative .
many targets set as part of europe 2020 will be reviewed at the june meeting .
"the agreement , then , was hanging by the thread of the conversation between chancellor merkel and president sarkozy ."
it is no package to cover the citizens .
economic policy coordination is to be built on the failed principles of the stability and growth pact .
i regard that as a dubious procedure .
in the eu there is currently an unemployment rate of 10 % the highest since 199over 20 % of under 25 year olds are out of work .
there is a need to say very specifically where we want to make savings .
"otherwise , I fear the worst ."
why has it postponed agreement on specific targets to combat poverty in the eu indefinitely ?
"i consider that to be a scandal in this , the european year for combating poverty ."
june this year is much too late .
"i am told that if I say anything which upsets you , then the microphone will be cut off ."
"well , what price free speech , what price democracy ?"
"in fact , all centralised eu plans fail ."
"just look at the disastrous , ruinous common fisheries policy ."
now your beloved euro has failed it has failed politically at its first major hurdle .
what really matters is the loss of democracy .
you have not been elected .
you are not accountable and there is no mechanism for the peoples of europe to remove you .
"it was zeus who kidnapped europa , and my fear is that you are kidnapping our democracy ."
as far as we are concerned this is unfinished business .
no one who believes in democracy would accept the post of president of the european union .
nl mr president .
this debate is a big sham .
"of course , this again boils down to dutch taxpayers having to dig deeply into their pockets once again ."
let us not forget that greece has been deceiving the countries of europe with falsified figures for many years .
"mr van rompuy , you say that you have forced greece to take tough measures ."
tough measures an increase in the retirement age from 61 to 63 years ?
greek workers are taking retirement at 63 and we have to foot the bill .
fine words also from angela merkel not one cent towards greek pensions .
yet what are we seeing now ?
they have changed their minds they have buckled .
apparently their words were worth nothing .
"now the greeks , with their falsified figures , are already receiving financial support , and who is next ?"
"portugal , spain , hungary , you name it ."
"mr van baalen , why are you not contradicting mr verhofstadt ?"
it is your own group that is advocating this .
"ladies and gentlemen , the european union is not the solution to the problems but the cause ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I will be fairly brief ."
there are some basic truths of which I must remind you .
these must be corrected .
steps must be taken to prevent them ever occurring again .
"we must , therefore , start with the basics budgetary orthodoxy ."
that is why we created the stability and growth pact in the past .
"some people are arguing for sanctions , penalties and a show of toughness ."
"the greek government has taken some measures , some courageous measures that I applaud ."
they were laid down in the informal council statement of 11 february .
we asked greece to take some measures .
it has taken them it has shouldered its responsibilities .
"nevertheless , they must be carried out ."
it is convinced of that .
"we can force people to be happy , but they were in agreement ."
"i witnessed their agreement before , during and after the meeting ."
"thirdly , they have not yet asked for financial support ."
they repeated that again yesterday .
these are the three basic truths of which I am keen to remind you .
"regarding the task force , I agree with those who say that it must be ambitious ."
i do not take examples from the past .
history never repeats itself and certainly not in the same way .
this important task force must be very ambitious .
we must learn every lesson there is to learn from the crisis that we have experienced .
we must draw every consequence there is to draw from it .
we must be far more preventative .
let us not endanger them !
that responsibility is incumbent on the eu .
"to each , their own responsibility ."
"we must , therefore , also be more preventative in economic terms ."
"we have more than just budgetary problems underlying the budgetary problems , there are economic ones ."
"we will , therefore , think about all of that ."
we will discuss them openly in the task force .
"there are economic objectives , environmental objectives and social objectives ."
"we have decided on social inclusion and , amongst other things , the fight against poverty ."
"if it has not already been refined , I can assure you that it will be in june ."
"there is also the whole problem of financial regulation , of which some people have rightly reminded us ."
there is a tendency to forget very quickly .
"however , we must continue to work on it ."
parliament has a major role to play in terms of financial regulation .
the g20 worked hard at the start of the crisis .
it is necessary to work hard following a recession .
"the crisis is still not quite over , but the recession is over ."
"we have decided on an economic strategy with five objectives not sixty , but five ."
we will implement them at national level .
in june all the member states have to present their plans for the coming years .
we will assess the situation .
i really think that we have laid the foundations for future action .
"the task force is , let us say , the embodiment of wisdom ."
how can all that be improvised ?
applause 
"thank you , mr van rompuy ."
thank you for your straightforward reply to the remarks which were made .
"there were critical remarks , which we all heard ."
they are necessary in such a discussion .
we are talking about a matter of the greatest importance .
"it is , therefore , a key issue ."
on top of this there are matters relating to climate .
the european parliament is fully ready for this .
"vice president of the commission . mr president , I also want to react to the initial discussion ."
i would like to thank members of parliament for their support for the eu 2020 strategy .
we in the eu can only do so much .
"we can coordinate , and do better within our european framework ."
i am sure that we will have a very fruitful debate on those proposals very soon .
we need to respect the rules we have .
"if I might be critical , I prefer ambitious reforms before ambitious ambitions ."
i think that there is a bit too much talk about ambitions and too little talk about action .
"if we destroy opportunities for a transatlantic capital market , it does not help europe ."
so we know what to do .
it would be good to have a task force but it would be even better without it .
it is no longer enough to set objectives we need to define instruments .
"we agree on the objectives , just as we agreed on the lisbon strategy ."
"what are the instruments , though ?"
we have known this for years .
we also know that those who violated the growth and stability pact are eurozone countries .
"that makes it even more urgent to be true and bold , transparent and to have courage ."
"as many speakers said , we also have to move away from open coordination methods ."
it is a secret coordination method today .
"what we need are open , binding targets and carrots and sticks for states to implement what is decided ."
why be so afraid of growth ?
we need economic growth and we need it spelt out in the conclusions of europe 20one thing that is immediately needed is energy efficiency .
find the courage to put forward the proposals on energy efficiency .
we know it creates jobs and competitiveness .
"finally , on the role of parliament consulting is not enough ."
i wish to ask something about the eu 2020 strategy .
this applies to us all .
"this is not a revolutionary idea , nor was it my idea ."
"if not , we shall become the bruges of the globalised world ."
"a new orgy of speculation , with borrowing rates hitting historic highs ."
the plan failed .
the markets you refer to prefer the international monetary fund as the supervisor of greece and other european economies .
social dumping has become the only competitive tool in the european union .
this is not the europe of solidarity and cohesion .
"examining the key points of the new strategy , we cannot really see any specific innovations ."
this is what europe needs real subsidiarity and real federalism .
did you actually not know anything about the financial imbalance in greece ?
"in addition , for me , the question of responsibility also quite naturally arises in this connection ."
who is responsible for the fact that greece has delivered inaccurate budget figures ?
"there is a need here for clarification and , above all , complete transparency ."
"however , there is always talk of new ground rules and solutions ."
these have been on the table for some time already !
that is why independence is so very important in politics .
"was he not invited , or is this an error in the minutes ?"
i wanted to know your thoughts .
you said that you were not a dictator you are a democrat of distinction .
"you are not a spectator you said ,i am a facilitator."
"i should now like to discuss a variety of subjects , the first of which is agriculture ."
"as representatives on the international stage , we shall have to demand reciprocity for our partners ."
"if he cannot come , then perhaps his vice president , joe biden , can ."
we had a discussion on the same day about the crisis in greece and some other points .
"generally , it was a presentation of the position of the european parliament ."
i spoke for about 15 20 minutes on the most important points .
you can read it I will send it to you .
"fr mr president , president of the european council , I have four comments ."
what we need today is economic governance .
"what that means , no one yet knows ."
new tools therefore have to be invented this is how you must approach the mandate .
that is the issue at stake in the debate and in the mandate that you have today .
"mr president , I want to address my comments to mr van rompuy as one chairman to another ."
they have sunk almost without trace in this communiqué .
why are we not focusing on things that we can actually get a grip on ?
we have a framework of rules in place .
"we are working on implementing those , which I am pleased about ."
"however , I once again agree with my friend mrs berès how about some competition between our institutions ?"
"we have mr monti's report coming , and there will be a report from my committee ."
the decisions by the european union and the bourgeois governments of its member states move in this direction .
i do not think this is the path to be taking quite the reverse .
"el mr president , it is a fact that economic union did not follow monetary union ."
"however , economic union would possibly mean doing away with different political views and different political factions ."
"there is a crisis of values , which has been uncovered by the global economic crisis ."
the european union should take appropriate steps here .
"in one way , I think that we have taken a step forwards ."
you have indeed achieved results in the areas of labour market and research and development .
you have preached the status quo on climate policy .
the 2020 objectives have long been accepted in this parliament and in the various european institutions .
you have tended to gloss over the disagreement that undoubtedly surrounds this social objective in the council .
"to your credit , you have always played your role with both modesty and ambition ."
you have your resit in june .
"you have our support , but this strategy does need to contain clear objectives on poverty ."
"de mr president , commissioner , mr van rompuy , I have two preliminary remarks to make ."
"secondly , I would like to offer mr reul's excuses ."
yet the heads of state or government lacked the courage to opt for a purely european solution .
"with such a solution , we would not have needed to involve the imf ."
the criteria when it comes to money are clear .
yet we europe must take action ourselves if we have problems within the european union .
we need more european solutions .
my second point concerns europe 20europe 2020 is not an objective .
"othmar karas is , of course , from austria , but he was talking on behalf of herbert reul ."
"we are in pretty good company on this , if that is any consolation ."
there is a high risk that the financial and real economic crisis might turn into a public debt crisis .
the regional and local levels of european governance are important co owners of europe's future .
they are also able to translate common european goals into their own territorial growth and job strategies .
"as you know , the greek government has denied these rumours ."
what has happened to these intentions ?
"as regards financial regulation , I have one piece of bad news and two of good news ."
these two things feature in the reports that parliament is currently debating .
they do not feature in the agreement that the council reached in december .
hu I would like to make two remarks .
"this seems patently impossible , however , since we have not even received the draft text ."
they promised it will be ready by the end of april .
how could a june adoption be possible ?
or a different question how will parliament's stance be taken into account in that case ?
"in any event , the ideas seem too general for the moment ."
we have experienced such things with regard to the implementation of the lisbon strategy .
therefore I will speak about the moral crisis .
what has happened ?
ga I would like him to speak a little about this crisis .
"following the council decision in march , no european country is at risk of bankruptcy ."
"by may , the greek parliament will have approved radical changes in taxation , insurance and the labour market ."
but who knows what battle awaits europe ?
"however , this is about us and the political parties we belong to ."
"president van rompuy , you spoke about budgetary discipline ."
a second failure will deal a crushing blow to cohesion and inclusion in the european union .
i thought that was easy to understand .
"however , it does not seem to be easy for the british labour government or for president van rompuy ."
"they seem to think it means governance , which is defined as the action or manner of governing ."
when will people be told the truth ?
"de mr president , the europe 2020 strategy has ambitious goals and specific figures ."
"the europe 2020 strategy , for example , aims to increase the number of academics considerably ."
there is considerable contradiction within the specifications of goals .
it will be an interesting balancing act to see how this will be resolved .
"this will also be an important point to note when implementing europe 20mr president , two matters first , accountability , which is vital to solve this situation in greece ."
the commission needs to clarify the flow of information with greece .
the comission must clearly indicate where institutional and personal responsibility rests .
someone is accountable and must be made accountable .
this is an issue which is different from supporting greece .
i would like to answer telegraphically some of those questions .
i agree with those meps who have been calling for respect for the rules .
"i am sure that , if we respected them better , we would not be in this situation ."
"we work very hard on agreeing the rules , so once we have them we definitely should respect them ."
the commission will do its utmost to enforce them even better in the future .
this will be quite detailed . it will be a measure by measure description .
i can assure you that it is the commission's utmost ambition to deliver on this very important strategy .
a lot of members spoke on the issue of greece .
this was the best solution we could find under very challenging circumstances .
"we would like to do this in a complementary way , so that each level supports the others ."
that is exactly what we would like to achieve .
"this is a crucial debate for us , so it is necessary to sit here and discuss further ."
there are just a few points that I wish to stress .
many of you have called for more europe .
"that is a worthy argument , but we must work within the framework of the treaty of lisbon ."
the treaty of lisbon is very clear .
it does not include so called bailout clauses .
it did not foresee this kind of situation .
"therefore , we must find something ."
that is why the european commission has proposed a mechanism of bilateral loans managed by the commission .
it is not just one or two governments that have demanded this many more have requested it .
why ?
"indeed , europe has contributed a very large amount ."
"therefore , something had to be found , an exchange in kind , something creative that respects the treaty ."
"moreover , the greek finance minister said this very clearly yesterday ."
"he did not , I repeat once again , request financial assistance ."
"he hopes that once the results of his efforts are visible , the spreads will decrease ."
"therefore , it is certainly not a government in the constitutional sense of the word ."
there is a great deal of work to do .
"well , in such cases , the treaty has to be changed , it has to be amended ."
penalties may be applied only where they are provided for by the treaty .
the treaty does not provide for this .
should we discuss this within the task force ?
i believe that that is the top priority .
"he has sounded the alarm , and rightly so ."
a major protectionist movement has certainly been avoided in europe .
"we have avoided that , but we must do more , we must go further ."
"in fact , we face some very great challenges in three areas ."
why not include the internal market in the five objectives ?
"we must develop it further , but it is not an end in itself ."
"it is an instrument , but an important one ."
"just as there is the common currency , there is the common market ."
it must be developed further to help increase growth and employment .
"some of you have asked ,what is the point of all this ? "
"nl since mrs van brempt asked me this question , I should like to reply in dutch ."
it is the very first time .
"to reiterate , I by no means feel the need to turn up for a resit in june ."
in that month we shall be continuing to implement what we decided on 25 march in the usual way .
"fr mr president , I shall confine myself to these few comments and observations ."
"many of the speeches consisted of comments , not questions ."
"i have therefore noted them , and I will give them some thought ."
this is a very important discussion for all of us .
written statements rule 149 
it is important for the european parliament to engage in positive cooperation with the commission and council .
the conditions for increasing investments in research and innovation must be improved .
"however , they respond in different measures to the guidelines set out by the european union's council ."
in writing . the outcome of this summit is far from responding effectively to greece's needs .
the solution proposed is everything but a european one .
this would allow harmonisation of the handling of poverty and of the complex problems of underdeveloped regions .
"their functioning today , however , is still marked by contradiction ."
"with the mediation of offshore companies , there was an attempt in effect to use emission rights twice ."
these are just two examples showing that the system of emission rights is not working smoothly .
abuses are damaging in particular to those actors who are making true efforts to mitigate environmental damage .
"in addition , we need to create full legal harmony between international and eu climate protection regulations ."
effective climate protection regulation will continue to require flexibility mechanisms .
"flexibility cannot , however , mean unpredictability and cannot create opportunities for abuse ."
"with this in mind , we must all make efforts ."
i am counting on good and comprehensive cooperation in this area .
this is an important step towards strengthening european solidarity .
greece is not the only state in the euro area facing financial problems .
the 2020 strategy which has been adopted by the european council is not acceptable to me as a socialist .
"this is not only an economic problem , but is also a violation of human rights ."
"poverty causes loss of health , restricted access to education , homelessness , discrimination and social exclusion ."
we need a long term strategy for fighting poverty as an integral part of eu policy .
the 2020 strategy will be a valuable document for eu citizens only on condition that social objectives are included .
the biggest challenge the eu is currently facing is the dramatic rise in unemployment .
"nevertheless , the eu must set out the course of action for its development and provide the necessary funding ."
"the eu also needs to invest in health care , agriculture , and transport and energy infrastructures ."
the summit had optimistic and promising significance .
thank you .
"six months ago , the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon inspired optimism and hope ."
"only half a year later , the greek crisis has put the eu before a dramatic situation ."
i am convinced that the member states that are in difficult situations do not need cynical advice .
greece's situation is not unique the eu will have to face other similar shock effects .
"the solution lies in increasing eu solidarity , effective coordination and achieving strong economic governance ."
"the situation of the greek economy has , undoubtedly , aroused much emotion ."
greece is going to feel the effects of today's economic collapse for many years to come .
"if so , how ?"
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
resumption of the session
"i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on wednesday , 7 april 20approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes"
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
documents received see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
petitions see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
fight against breast cancer in the european union written declaration see minutes
the names of the signatories will be published in the minutes of the sitting .
"mr president , I should just like to thank everybody for signing written declaration 71 on breast cancer ."
"i would like to thank our fellow member , as well as all of you who signed this declaration ."
parliamentary immunity see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
verification of credentials see minutes
council positions at first reading see minutes
statements by the president
"it was , as we all remember , a very serious railway accident ."
"on wednesday last week , we observed a one minute silence in memory of the victims of the disaster ."
i would like to thank you again for this act of solidarity .
"this accident was not due to a technical fault , either ."
"thank you very much , mr president ."
i will pass on your words of sympathy to the victims and to the people of my country .
applause 
not everyone has managed to come .
an extraordinary meeting of the conference of presidents ended a few minutes ago .
"a committee meeting may be held , even on thursday , but without taking a vote ."
this is what we have decided .
deferring the votes is not serious from the legal point of view of our obligations to the council .
"the remaining items will be discussed , except some of the items planned for thursday ."
i have forwarded the request contained in mr farage's letter to the competent committee for consideration .
order of business
the following amendments have been proposed 
first part of the changes see previous item 
"de mr president , I would like to raise a point of order for your information ."
it is nice for you to congratulate us for being here today .
"although it is difficult , it is our job ."
it is nothing special .
those who are not here today may then perhaps also come .
applause 
"however , let us leave this discussion ."
"mr president , I would like to concur with the gentleman over there ."
i think it is absolutely abysmal that you have done that .
i think there are enough people here to vote .
"we know the difficult conditions , but this is supposed to be a parliament ."
i think the taxpayer back in the uk will be absolutely appalled by this .
surely the time has come for this place to be shut down .
thank you for your remark .
"ladies and gentlemen , I will give people the floor after establishing the order of business ."
"could you move it to wednesday , 5 may instead of thursday , 6 may please ?"
"ladies and gentlemen , this is my proposal to you ."
we will decide later it is not necessary to decide that now .
the only thing is that the votes will be held on 5 and 6 may .
all the decisions will be taken later .
we will start with the agenda .
i do not want any further points of order now .
monday 
no changes .
tuesday 
the debate will continue until 11.00 .
no votes will be taken on tuesday .
wednesday 
no changes .
no votes will be taken on wednesday .
thursday 
there will be no sitting on thursday .
the order of business was thus established 
one minute speeches on matters of political importance
the next item is the one minute speeches on matters of political importance .
"mr president , thank you for letting me speak again ."
it is quite likely that most of the meps from the uk will not be present .
it is our general election on 6 may .
the whole country will not be here .
you are going to discuss things which will not represent the united kingdom .
the president cut off the speaker 
if I may give you my answer I will take what you have said very seriously .
we have two days 5 and 6 may .
"before we begin , I would like to make an announcement ."
"as we all know , rule 150 of the rules of procedure allows for one minute speeches ."
"pl mr president , I would like to draw attention to the question of genetically modified food ."
"however , decisions on the importation and processing of gmo seeds would still be made at eu level ."
"in view of this , we should consider whether a special label should be introduced for gmo free products ."
"we should , therefore , think about a specific design of label ."
it is a serious human rights violation .
we all know that meteorological conditions do not favour us all meeting here in strasbourg without difficulties .
this has caused many fellow members and officials a lot of stress and anxiety .
thank you very much .
i have some specific questions .
will there perhaps be another few minutes of catch the eye ?
thank you for your remark .
application of the new rules will begin with the meeting in brussels .
the part session in brussels will be the first one held under the new rules .
i am pleased that romania has again refrained from implementing these plans .
the only sensible thing to do is to implement a castration programme .
"romania has refused to do this , however ."
"mr president , that was my one minute speech ."
i wanted to use the remaining time to explain once again what it was I wanted to say earlier .
"in 2004 , the european parliament approved a package of recommendations , such as the catania report ."
"pl madam president , my nation has been hit by a great tragedy ."
"the president , the head of the central bank and military leaders have been killed ."
the funeral of the president and his wife was held yesterday .
i regret that the head of the council and the president of the european commission were not there .
i would like to thank everyone who was there for these expressions of solidarity .
serbia's ambitions to join the eu seem to be putting wind in the country's sails .
"however , it is nothing new for the european union to apply double standards ."
"no one disagrees that violence is reprehensible , whatever form it takes and wherever it originates ."
"having said which , it is vital that we correct the chronic social pathogenies that give birth to violence ."
we need to strike at poverty and unemployment .
there is no longer any margin for inaction .
"duisburg , home of the largest steelworks in europe , is in my constituency ."
i would ask the commission to respond to this appeal .
"madam president , travellers whose holiday plans have been ruined by the volcanic ash face confusion over insurance ."
"i understand that the package travel directive is being reviewed , and this must be done urgently ."
"even at this stage , I would ask the commission to look at this ."
"de madam president , it is not easy these days to be a fervent pro european ."
"i would like , today , to mention the problem of eurostat ."
"pt today , we are facing a natural disaster with unpredictable consequences ."
eu transport ministers are meeting today to decide how to deal with the air transport situation .
the conclusions of this meeting should be based on scientific knowledge and the precautionary principle .
the economy cannot take priority over people's safety .
europe must continue to act as a bastion of safety and quality of life .
"however , we expect swift , pragmatic solutions on alternative transport systems by land and sea ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"the repercussions of the economic and financial crisis are well known , including on the postal market ."
i believe that the social consequences resulting from the implementation of this directive must be assessed .
it is our duty to prevent the occurrence of social dumping .
he was arrested by igor smirnov's regime in the self proclaimed republic of transnistria .
"indeed , the journalist has been refused release on bail and is being kept in totally awful conditions ."
pl the financial and economic crisis has hit the poorest people the hardest .
it is particularly regrettable that a quarter of this number 20 million are children .
providing a high level of education is the most important step which can help change this tragic situation .
"this is at a time when europe , or most of europe , is recovering from a deep recession ."
that is because the government has intervened .
i think it is important for eu institutions also to intervene in difficult economic times .
i am doing so now that the time for submitting the stability and growth programmes has ended .
these programmes forecast the medium and long term positions of the various member states .
supplementary questions using the blue card are not permitted during the one minute speeches .
"thus , it was not a point of order ."
you gave the floor to a man five times in a row .
thank you very much .
we have a list of speakers and we did try to make it balanced .
that concludes this item .
power of legislative delegation debate 
those who criticised the treaty of lisbon spoke of a democratic deficit .
"many may say , of course , that in a formal sense , this oversight already existed ."
"from now on , it will be possible to do so ."
"in my report , I strove to make it clear that parliament insists on these rights ."
we will not accept any additional obligation that goes beyond what is laid down in the treaty .
"on the substance , I can just reiterate that the commission very much welcomes the report ."
we might disagree on some specific questions but our objectives are the same .
"we want to see precision , efficiency , transparency and a clear and fair balance of power ."
i have another specific comment on the duration of the right of objection .
i think that we should focus on them .
parliament had very few rights in this process .
"we were informed , but we were not colegislators ."
the treaty of lisbon has now changed that .
we want to receive information as early as the council receives it .
"secondly , the commission must ensure early and continuous transmission of information and relevant documents ."
the last point is that parliament's recess periods must be taken into account .
the cooperation was extremely constructive and I would also like to express my sincere thanks for that .
that is actually the key point in this regard .
"thank you , mr szájer ."
our interpretation of article 290 is that this gives the commission the opportunity to supplement or amend legislation .
such an opportunity is far ranging and wide sweeping and is open to almost unlimited interpretation .
perhaps the rapporteur will comment in his response as to why they are sufficient .
article 290 is therefore a product of the illegitimate lisbon treaty .
"i am a realist , however , and I would say that now we have to live with it ."
we will need to remind ourselves of this again and again .
"once again , this has a lot to do with transparency ."
"on that note , I would say keep up the good work ."
we will be constructive partners on the road to revolutionising democracy .
"in fact , article 290 refers precisely to this matter ."
"parliament and the council exercise control , but only after the adoption of the delegated acts ."
delegated acts can also be published during the timeframe within which the european parliament and council can raise objections .
i absolutely agree with mr leinen that the lisbon treaty brought in enormous changes .
"this was underlined by the rapporteur , mr szájer ."
"i would also add , my fellow members , that this is a struggle ."
this report is about affirming clearly that these are our rights and we insist on them .
we consider it important primarily for those areas where codecision did not previously exist .
i cannot interpret the latter any other way than that our rights have expanded .
"until now , we had no say in what happens to the powers that we had previously delegated ."
"in practice , parliament was not assigned any role in this process ."
we are the ones with the legislative power and we delegate these powers to the commission .
"therefore , I cannot see this as anything other than an expansion of our rights ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the next plenary sitting in brussels .
written statements rule 149 
the delegated acts will be of paramount importance for union law and the interinstitutional balance in the eu .
in writing . I warmly welcome the outcome of the report by mr szájer .
defining the new legislative system is a difficult and complex issue .
the introduction of the novel concept of legislative acts has far reaching consequences .
air safety eu airline blacklist debate 
how we can now build on this is the question facing us today .
we have seen how effective the bringing together of different national blacklists into one comprehensive eu wide list has been .
would the commission consider establishing harmonised and standardised ramp checks and reporting ?
but how can we work more proactively towards the ultimate goal of improving global aviation safety ?
this will ultimately be the most effective way of improving safety for all passengers .
the commission liaises closely with european and international travel agent associations each time the list is updated .
this allows them to be in the best possible position to aid the passengers .
the list has no extra territorial effect it does not apply outside the european union .
"nevertheless , I would like to put some questions to the commission ."
"moreover , another very important point in my opinion is aeroplane monitoring ."
i find this pressure to be inappropriate since commercial reasons do not justify endangering passengerslives .
we must build on and learn from the experience we have gained .
there are some areas where further action is necessary .
"first of all , in the area of communication with passengers ."
we need to think that one through .
"one point mentioned by madam de veyrac is , of course , people being misled ."
do we really have a watertight system ?
we have seen some examples of that .
"to conclude , I also think that we should work towards a worldwide blacklist ."
we will soon be discussing how we can remedy this situation .
"of course , this does not need to influence safety ."
this is about aviation safety for european passengers .
we simply want everyone who flies here in europe to be transported safely and to arrive safely .
"as far as I know , to date we have not had a european airline on a blacklist ."
"despite this , though , we have actually had the skyeurope incident just in the last year ."
"they took the flight and were stranded , and so they had no information that would have protected them ."
i would like to have an answer to this generally in the debate .
"madam president , commissioner , parliament showed a lot of initiative when it came to drawing up this blacklist ."
the first question that I would like to ask about this is as follows .
i have tried this out for myself .
so here we have a problem then .
have there been any positive or negative developments with regard to this ?
"it is worth saying this , in defence of the interests of the european consumer ."
the european parliament is speaking on this matter yet again .
this shows what importance we attach to the matter .
i spoke about this a couple of months ago .
"after everything that has been said , I have a personal reflection ."
this is a completely schizophrenic situation .
further development is also important for us .
"with that , I come to the point which is most important for me information ."
"in december 2008 , the council finally adopted the eu code of conduct on arms transfers ."
this code controls the export from the eu of military technology and equipment .
the general comment is as follows .
what is happening here to inform people who need to fly ?
"this is a real burning issue for me , and I would expect you to answer it ."
i will leave it at that one question .
"as a result , member states then try to obtain expert opinions from the eu ."
"ro the blacklist , updated on 30 march this year , features 278 companies from 17 countries ."
"at the same time , however , we must also help third countries improve their civil aviation safety standards ."
competent third country authorities need to improve their ability to monitor the air carriers they grant licences to .
this information should be provided no later than at the time of purchasing the ticket .
"member of the commission . madam president , I would like to thank you for the questions ."
it has definitely demonstrated that this house is very strongly behind the blacklist approach .
we also work very much with icao .
i will mention an example from indonesia that was asked of me .
that has been achieved with the help of the commission and also with the member states and the industry .
"our approach definitely encourages countries to change their approach to aviation safety , and that is only one example ."
"i shall end with a particularly important issue raised , that of consumer information ."
we require the travel agents to inform orally and / or in writing passengers at the time of reservation .
the debate is closed .
this is unacceptable .
"even if it was a supposedly humorous provocation , jokes of this kind have no place in this house ."
many thanks for bringing this to our attention .
we will look into this accordingly and see what happened .
written statements rule 149 
"it is obvious , however , that air transport is not restricted exclusively to european union air space ."
"a question , therefore , arises how can we ensure the safety of eu citizens outside eu territory ?"
aviation security charges debate 
no one really does it properly .
"however , we will have to pay for this ."
"this is something that we really should not take lying down , and this report aims to change things ."
"what specifically will it change , and what does it aim to change ?"
there are states which have financed them purely through taxation .
"there are states in which only the end user pays , and there are others which have a mixed system ."
our intention was to ensure that these systems could be retained .
it is not about earnings and not about profits it is about security .
i think that they are all very justified and well founded .
"i think that that is very important , particularly at times when airlines and airports are under pressure ."
i would just like to emphasise two specific issues which are dealt with in the report .
"however , I am confident that the rapporteur knew all this , and expected this fight with the council ."
thank you very much for this excellent report .
i was targeted a moment ago .
this is typical if you live in austria .
"there is a group there which , by international standards , is classified as far right ."
they have party leaders who make certain gestures in the air and think nothing of it .
i would simply like to make it clear once again we are the democrats .
the far right wingers sit over there .
blue card questions on a personal comment under rule 151 are not permitted .
your request to speak on this point therefore cannot be accepted .
hu this is a blue card question addressed to the previous speaker .
i would like half a minute to ask a question .
"madam president , this intervention which is totally acceptable is interfering with a debate on a subject ."
i would suggest that you place this sort of thing in between the reports .
many thanks .
we will now continue with the debate .
i allowed the personal explanation because the previous point of order referred directly to mr martin .
we will now go on with the debate and also devote our full attention to it .
"there was one very important question , about financing , which the commission was not able to answer ."
"i am talking about the more stringent measures , which should be financed by the member states ."
another matter concerned the competence of the independent supervisory authority in establishing charges connected with air traffic security .
"during our work , we developed a common position , which I consider a very ambitious one ."
"it is , today , a challenge for the council and the commission ."
"thank you , therefore , and thanks to those who have contributed to it ."
might I just remind you that the issue of funding is not a new one .
"however , the council has always obstructed this ."
"obviously , we need to bear in mind a few considerations ."
the first and the most essential one is transparency .
that is essential and it should be clear that we must not budge on this issue .
she cannot be here today .
"she arranged everything together with you , and was also completely satisfied ."
we do not want to impose anything .
this is not always provided at the moment .
i think that the approach that we have developed on this is also a completely logical one .
"here , we have said that actually , the member states should do this ."
"of course , the states do not want to pay for it ."
"of course , we will also have to ask whether they really provide more security ."
"so , aviation security charges of this kind must be administered transparently ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"certainly , aircraft crashed in the old days , and unfortunately they still do ."
that is why it is important that the same rules apply both within and outside of the eu .
"in this context , the eu is too small to be an isolated island ."
that also applies to charges .
nobody should be lost in a jungle of unclear charges and levies .
i wholeheartedly support the report by the committee on transport and tourism .
the president cut off the speaker 
we had an interesting discussion in the committee on transport and tourism .
"for when we start to talk about implementation , that is when the discussion gets going ."
this is quite an important consideration in my view .
we are already compromising by leaving some things to so called subsidiarity .
"personally , I am not very happy about that , but there we are ."
security charges and security overall have increased significantly in recent years .
"therefore , this dossier also has an economic aspect ."
we are now talking about around 30 % of the costs .
"therefore , these three points are crucial for me ."
airport security is the responsibility of member states .
"passengers are the ones , however , who ultimately pay for security measures through the price of their ticket ."
the directive on aviation security charges and the directive on airport charges should be harmonised .
"these security measures should not , all the same , impede the smooth flow of passenger traffic at airports ."
i would also like to mention the ban on bringing liquids on board .
this means that various items can be confiscated .
"regrettably , this procedure does not include the option of receiving the item later at the addressee's address ."
the level of these charges should correspond only to costs demonstrably incurred in securing the safety of passengers .
"commissioner , if we want to help europe become competitive , we must forget about setting up new authorities ."
authorities do not create the added value which can raise living standards for our citizens .
thank you for your attention .
"we had a technical problem here , so it was somewhat longer than a minute ."
what is clear is that the ash cloud has only delayed the pilotsstrike which has been announced .
i would like to quickly raise another point .
i therefore fear that we will ultimately see very little progress .
i would therefore like the commission to give its opinion on how it sees the future of this text .
ro it is true that air transport is the safest out of every form of transport .
"there needs to be a particularly close bond between all these links , along with open communication ."
i agree with adopting exceptional measures in the scenarios already mentioned .
"however , these measures must be transparent ."
"unfortunately , communication and transparency are features of the aviation security sector which need to be improved urgently ."
this is the task of airports and airlines which must become more open and transparent .
"what , in the end , is the issue here ?"
"it is about strengthening transparency , consumer protection , security and coordination , as well as quality control ."
"i would , however , advise against creating a new authority to deal with these questions ."
"i take a positive view of the subsidiarity in the report , and it should definitely be retained ."
whoever orders government related security measures also pays for them .
we should therefore not start too high .
i would hope that the end result is very close to our proposal .
"madam president , mr leichtfried is right ."
"the cost for extra security should , in the end , be covered by the member states ."
"the state cannot simply say to its citizens ,you get exactly what you pay for."
"its obligations go beyond that , because the state is not simply another service provider motivated exclusively by profit ."
that simply should stop .
the exact way in which the security charges will be calculated must be comprehensible .
"information on the size of the charges , and what they consist of , must be provided openly ."
transparency is imperative here .
"in my case , I lost all the cheese I wanted to bring because it was tartinable !"
"i thought that excessive , but nevertheless believe that we have provided improvements throughout the system ."
the report and the commission proposal strengthen each other .
the only question is whether it should be all taxpayers that pay or just those who are passengers .
"parliament is going one step further , in looking at the whole of the aviation security sector ."
we will see where that debate leads .
i believe that the timing and scope of the proposal are correct .
"madam president , I am somewhat embarrassed after so much praise , and so I will keep it short ."
we have worked hard on this matter for nearly a year now .
"second , I would like to address the council and make an appeal to them ."
"from the start , we have been very willing to compromise ."
"however , I would like to warn the council to let sleeping dogs lie ."
this is not only my opinion .
this is why I am appealing to the council and the member states to move on this .
we now have the treaty of lisbon .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the next plenary sitting in brussels .
written statements rule 149 
only in this way will it be possible to guarantee greater transparency and information for passengers .
community guidelines for the development of the trans european transport network recast debate 
"as mr simpson cannot be here , mr el khadraoui will speak on his behalf ."
the changes are not about updating the maps or making any substantive changes .
these are in line with the changes made by the council and in line with correcting the guidelines .
"member of the commission . madam president , I am very grateful to the speaker and rapporteur ."
so we foresee that this could be presented to the college on 5 may .
then this methodology will definitely be presented to this house and the council .
the commission will then engage in the preparation of the proposals for the new ten t and its financing .
the in depth debate on updating the list of ten t projects is planned for the end of the year .
the eruption of the volcano in iceland has highlighted to us the weakness of the european transport system .
the european union ought to have had an efficient system for redirecting passengers to other forms of transport .
another increasingly important aspect is the development of transport along inland waterways and the european maritime corridors .
"this is the reason for our amendment , therefore ."
"it is our responsibility to give our citizens good , clear information ."
the broad gauge railway line from vladivostok reaches the border of the eu at čierna nad tisou .
"in my opinion , projects such as this should also receive very significant support in the future ."
thank you .
"de madam president , yes , I rather prefernon attached."
"moreover , the financing has still not been clarified ."
"that is not all , however ."
roads are the arteries of our economy .
that is something on which we all agree .
"however , we must not simply take ajust in timeapproach ."
"we also need to work in a cost effective , environmentally sound and environmentally friendly way ."
this will be particularly important in future .
"in this regard , there are , of course , certain things that need to be taken into account ."
these are things that we will need to take into account in future .
the president cut off the speaker 
"it will identify the essential hubs ports , airports and logistical hubs overcoming the border barriers ."
it does not fit into the european landscape .
it does not reduce the differences between the systems that we currently have it increases them .
that cannot be allowed to happen !
it then suddenly disappeared again and no one knows why .
"in 2004 , the transrapid link between munich airport and munich central station appeared just as suddenly ."
"that was then halted in germany , with the additional support of the state government of bavaria ."
there was agreement about scrapping this project no one wanted it any more .
that is why it must no longer be included in these guidelines .
that is his responsibility .
that is something that we should all take note of .
we must get rid of this transrapid system .
"it was a nice model from a scientific perspective , but it has no place in europe ."
"it does not belong here and , as such , does not belong in these guidelines ."
"we will manage , nevertheless ."
that is certainly fulfilled with this report .
"however , that is the wrong way to go about it ."
we need to look at what adds value for the european union and european taxpayers .
only the koralm tunnel will be able to permanently eliminate the barrier posed by this bottleneck .
i feel that particular attention must be focused on corridor it could provide europe with a proper transport backbone .
"de madam president , the trans european networks are indeed utilised for regular traffic in europe ."
"of course , it is clear that there are always national interests ."
these traffic corridors are found all over europe .
"that is what it is all about , and that is also what we will debate accordingly ."
today's debate was on a broader scale and it will help to propose a methodology .
commission vice president kallas will send the proposal to the college on 5 may .
what I take away from this debate is that this house very strongly supports trans european network policy .
we hope that the other political groups will be able to support us on this .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the next plenary sitting in brussels .
strategic goals and recommendations for the eu's maritime transport policy until 2018 debate 
the first key point is the importance of the sector .
"within the european market , 40 % of all goods are transported by seagoing ships ."
this makes shipping a crucial economic sector and one that has to compete in the global market .
"when you understand this , the second key point follows automatically , and that is competition ."
we know that many countries the world over support their maritime fleets in very diverse ways .
"because of these two key points , my report calls on member states to continue to boost their flags ."
what is important for me is that state aid is granted transparently and that there is good accountability .
"in both cases , that would be tantamount to flogging a dead horse ."
"for me , that is a misnomer and I would have preferred something likesubstandardships ."
we can see that this transport strategy is at the forefront of major strategic developments in europe .
our main aim is to ensure and further increase the long term sustainability and performance of european shipping .
"this means efficient , safe , secure and environmentally friendly maritime transport services ."
maritime transport provides for high quality jobs in europe and fuels research and european industrial innovation .
the main work on the strategy was carried out before the economic crisis .
"in view of the economic downturn , the strategy is still valid ."
"in this context , an emphasis must lie on the maintenance and improvement of the international order ."
"we are faced with threats like protectionism , unfair competition , substandard shipping or piracy ."
"we must find better responses to these issues , namely through dialogue with major trading partners ."
"i would also like to answer the point on state aid guidelines for shipping in 20of course , european shipping faces huge challenges at present , as well as an exogenous challenge ."
the first challenge is the need to increase competition .
it is a fact that free competition is the life blood of shipping .
we therefore need a dynamic policy .
let me briefly address three points .
there are numerous other points that I could mention here .
"mr van dalen , congratulations on this excellent report ."
it offers positive paths to allow maritime transport to develop between now and 2018 in the best possible conditions .
"in particular , we highlight the fight against abuses of flags of convenience or substandard vessels ."
we also highlight protection against piracy .
we highlight the support for simplification of the administrative rules governing entry and exit from european ports .
we highlight the promotion of maritime occupations and continuous training for them .
"lastly , we highlight the priority given to environmental issues ."
"in particular , it is a useful tool against global warming ."
we will therefore be retabling our amendment to plenary .
parliament is calling on the commission to continue its fight against abuses of flags of convenience .
"this is positive , but the fight has yet to really begin ."
"otherwise , all of our good intentions on safety , on job creation , are doomed ."
we must now ensure that this is recognised as a right for all seafarers and have employers finance it .
i also support the requirements for shipbuilding and steel quality .
it remains imprisoned in the shackles of the dogma of free and undistorted competition .
it is still too shaped by pressure from the shipperslobby and by the worst ultraliberal utopian scenarios .
"i have a couple of comments , however ."
"if they sail only half full , the freight costs are too high ."
risk based controls then how can we tell that a coal barge is smuggling people ?
risk based controls alone are not sufficient .
"on the contrary , many old ships from third countries will take financial advantage of this ."
piracy why is this problem only mentioned in an african context ?
the problem is far greater in the waters around indonesia .
that also affects eu shipping companies .
i also consider it regrettable that we have closed down so many small ports .
"we should invest in strengthening coastal maritime transport , not weakening it ."
one final point we are often told how important the shipbuilding industry is for the eu .
"yet where is the debate on the responsible , environmentally sound scrapping of ships ?"
ro europe's maritime matters cannot be viewed separately from international maritime matters .
"europe is a major competitor on the maritime transport market , especially in terms of transporting passengers and containers ."
the european union's position in the global market in this sector must be enhanced .
"companies in the us , asia and the middle east offer far more facilities than their european counterparts ."
this situation must be ended .
i am referring to the situation in the horn of africa .
"i welcome the actions of the navfor atalanta operation , which is completely fulfilling its duty in the region ."
"in other words , we must counteract the risk of deflagging ."
"at the same time , we must also play on a level playing field ."
i am sure we will have to come back to this at a later stage .
there are three important areas for consideration .
"first of all , employment and working conditions ."
"we have to make more effort to spread information about career opportunities , whether on shore or elsewhere ."
these are the things we need to build on .
"finally , it goes without saying that safety is essential ."
you can only create a thriving profession if it can be undertaken safely .
we have all seen that he is wholeheartedly committed to maritime transport .
that has become abundantly clear .
we all know how important this area is .
ninety per cent of our exports and imports are transported via the ports .
we need new blood .
young people simply need to see what future prospects they would have in maritime transport .
the environmental aspect has already been mentioned .
"shipping is very environmentally friendly , particularly where co2 emissions are concerned ."
there is still considerable room for improvement with regard to nitrogen oxides and sulphur emissions .
"in individual cases , we may also need state aid for this ."
we need to ensure that we work together to develop this sector further .
it must take on board factors that are specific to this sector and address the challenges it is facing .
it has been mentioned that maritime transport is the vehicle for 80 % of the world's trade .
ro maritime transport is becoming extremely important for the european union .
"shipyards are facing financial difficulties , especially in the current economic and financial crisis ."
"at the moment , shipyard representatives cannot envisage a solution for overcoming the current economic crisis ."
the european maritime sector is facing an ever growing shortage of qualified seafarers .
i think that measures are required to facilitate workersmobility in this sector without unjustified barriers and restrictions .
"mr president , I would like to address two issues mentioned by the rapporteur , but not elaborated upon ."
"the first is piracy , on which the recommendations are all good , but inevitably general ."
we are working now in the college to prepare a detailed roadmap for implementation .
"by the summer , we could come out with this ."
i should like to refer to three specific questions .
one concerns state aid guidelines for ports .
i cannot give any precise timelines but we are working on it .
"on maritime ports , we do not have any legislation at this stage in the pipeline ."
"finally , thank you once again , mr president and honourable members , for this debate ."
it was really very helpful for the commission .
"rapporteur . nl mr president , thank you and thank you to all the members ."
i think this report is a good example of constructive cooperation between the different groups .
i would like to address three key points which some of you have already mentioned .
"first of all , the environment , which is crucial ."
i wonder whether the commission might like to consider that idea again .
"finally , the concept ofgreen ports, as some members have dubbed it ."
such a concept is a reward for good environmental behaviour .
"that way , you actually combine a system of incentives and disincentives ."
i strongly endorse such a system .
that is necessary .
mrs ţicău mentioned the paris memorandum of understanding .
this gives inspection an enormous boost and good behaviour is rewarded .
"that is , ships have to behave well ."
slovakia is still not on the white list and must make an extra effort there .
i have placed particular emphasis on shipbuilding and maintenance of ships .
"we know that in times of economic downturn , maintenance quickly falls by the wayside ."
we give our full backing to the atalanta mission against piracy .
it is a good mission and has already proved a success .
"only last week , a frigate of the dutch navy helped free a german merchant ship ."
such cooperation seems ideal to me .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place in two weekstime , during the part session in brussels ."
written statements rule 149 
"ladies and gentlemen , a look at the situation of european union maritime transport can lead to ambivalent conclusions ."
the safety of the maritime sector is very important .
we must look at the situation more broadly and find a solution to the existing problems in this area .
europeana the next steps short presentation 
"mr president , commissioner kroes , europeana is to be the major digital cultural project of the european union ."
what does europeana mean ?
"it is a digital library , a digital museum and a digital archive for our european cultural heritage ."
the europeana project was started in november 2008 and 1 000 cultural institutions contributed to its establishment .
it has 150 partner organisations .
"so far , around 6 million works from our european cultural heritage have been digitised ."
"up to now , it has been funded by the econtentplus programme and by the member states ."
"however , so far , the rate of digitisation has varied considerably between the member states ."
"we want a public resource , in the best european sense , for our european cultural heritage ."
it must be a joint european project .
we therefore also need ajoin europeanacampaign to hopefully find additional private sponsors .
many people still do not know about this .
that is the huge task that we now have to face together .
i would like to mention three key factors .
"firstly , in the case of europeana , we cannot allow a reduction in quality ."
this is something about which we should be careful during this project .
"secondly , it requires a solution to the matter of copyright in the case of orphan and out of print works ."
i would like to thank mrs trüpel for an excellent report .
this fills me with the hope that we have managed to achieve an exhaustive report .
we have 27 different member states which have an extremely rich and varied culture .
"however , europeana is not such an entity ."
"however , it still requires further joint efforts on our part to actually make this project a success ."
another prerequisite is that the member states become increasingly aware of their responsibility .
we welcome it .
"it is an ambitious project and again , I repeat , it is the start ."
that is essential to ensure access to culture in the digital age .
it is not only what mr migalski said something that makes us better citizens .
it is parliament's report that rightly underlines that there is also an economic component .
"the europeana site is the result of an unprecedented collaboration between european libraries , archives and museums ."
"again , this is just a start and let us go for it ."
more can be done and more needs to be done .
i am glad that parliament joins the commission in asking member states to make fast progress in doing so .
the sooner the better .
the site will be further developed in the years thereafter .
it is anyhow worthwhile to fight for it .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place in two weekstime , at the next part session in brussels ."
written statements rule 149 
"europeana , the european digital library , faces many challenges today ."
the success of this pan european undertaking is far from being assured .
the process of extending digital collections is very expensive and will take many more years .
europeana must not turn into a portal like wikipedia where anyone can input text without it being verified beforehand .
this practice obviously produces numerous mistakes in the content posted there .
copyright and legislation governing it in member states pose one of the biggest challenges europeana faces .
competition with google also spotlights numerous issues which will have to be resolved .
thank you for your attention .
evaluation and assessment of the animal welfare action plan 2006 2010 short presentation 
"one very important piece of the puzzle is missing , and that is compliance ."
"it also concerns the recurrent problem of the long distance transport of animals , sometimes in grim conditions ."
"furthermore , I should like to see a slightly new approach and in particular a more holistic approach ."
this is important for two reasons .
the second and perhaps most important reason is that we make great demands of european farmers and producers .
they therefore need to be protected from unfair competition from third countries .
it is unreasonable to make such great demands of them if we are not prepared to ensure fair trade .
whether this is at the point of sale or via taxes is a debate for another occasion .
"last but not least , we need to get to grips with the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry ."
i thought this would cost thousands .
"in fact , in many commercial centres , it costs millions , as large scale industrial equipment is involved ."
many countries have complied with the directive .
the rapporteur has called for a ban on trade in eggs which do not comply with the legislation .
i am not sure that one can do that .
"fr mr president , mrs paulsen , thank you for your report ."
this issue resonates differently in the various european countries .
not all producers or consumers perceive the issue in the same way .
"this is , therefore , a clear justification for the common agricultural policy ."
the european union must ensure that legislation is up to date and that supervision is in operation .
"at the moment , there are shortcomings in both of these areas ."
the question of transporting animals has been raised here .
"the action plan , adopted in 2006 , has basically been a success ."
the rules adopted should be implemented .
"it is not only about the rule of law , but also about fair competition ."
we also agree on the need to promote fair competition between eu and non eu producers .
our future strategy will have to make that clear .
"this would assist eu institutions , member states and stakeholders in their actions to promote animal welfare initiatives ."
i share your opinion that the future strategy should carefully look at costs and competitiveness .
it also stressed the need for sufficient resources for proper monitoring and support to eu producers .
the commission plans to present a new eu strategy for animal welfare in 20the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place in two weekstime , during the part session in brussels ."
written statements rule 149 
animal welfare is an important issue .
"european legislation on this matter must be rigorously applied , as mrs paulsen's report recommends ."
eu agriculture and climate change short presentation 
i believe we need to change direction .
the 2013 cap needs to be ambitious .
it must be based on goals that will help citizens to understand why we need a common agricultural policy .
"de mr president , many thanks to the rapporteur for his report ."
"thus , we have already succeeded in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases in agriculture by 20 % ."
"in addition , agricultural soils and plants draw large quantities of co2 from the atmosphere ."
agriculture is therefore part of the solution to the problem of climate change .
farmers cannot manage this alone .
they need a strong european agriculture policy to support them .
europe must be self sufficient .
"agriculture must be ecologically sustainable and , in this regard , we have much work to do ."
"de mr president , I would like to thank mr le foll most sincerely for his report ."
it contains very important points that we will need to take heed of in future .
"in future , we will need sustainable and ecologically sound procedures which ensure that the environment is protected ."
ten per cent of greenhouse gases still originate from agriculture .
"there needs to be a reduction here , too ."
that it something that we need to consider in future .
"i completely agree that in future , agriculture must be greener and more environmentally friendly ."
"in addition , the demands of consumers regarding the quality of food are increasing ."
"pl mr president , I am impressed by this report's comprehensive approach ."
i am thinking of beneficial effects as well as adverse ones .
"mr president , I just want to mention my home ."
it is the southern end of an area of peatland that stretches straight up from england into scotland .
"that has been complemented by overgrazing , perhaps by sheep , and by fires ."
"of course , as the peatland dries out , it releases global warming gases ."
a huge potential supply of global warming gas is being released from what should be a wonderful area .
ro agriculture generates a significant proportion of the total volume of carbon dioxide emissions .
this is why we are highlighting the need to improve energy efficiency in this sector .
"i am referring here , in particular , to research into the future generation of biofuels ."
the fight against climate change is an absolute priority globally .
we have a policy that limits greenhouse gas emissions .
"also , eu agriculture policy is working to optimise a carbon sink function of agricultural soils ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place in two weekstime , at the next part session in brussels ."
written statements rule 149 
nitrous oxide is released from nitrogenous fertilisers and methane is created through the digestive processes of livestock .
scientific research shows that this sector is uniquely capable of capturing carbon in a natural and non polluting form .
"for all of the above reasons , I fully support the adoption of the report ."
"in order to meet the global demand for food , it is essential to maintain our current production levels ."
climate change has a direct influence on agriculture .
women are among the most vulnerable to the impact of climate change .
agriculture in areas with natural handicaps a special health check short presentation 
they are currently defined on the basis of mainly or exclusively national criteria .
i would like to summarise what we are now proposing in this report .
there are nonetheless very specific doubts as to whether the proposed criteria will be sufficiently precise .
"finally , I believe that it is essential to also consider having transitional periods ."
"de mr president , many thanks to the rapporteur for his excellent report ."
i am not convinced that these are really the right criteria to use .
i therefore appeal to the commission this really should not happen as often as it does .
"when we want and need to evaluate something , we naturally also need to know the results ."
i view this to a certain extent as a lack of trust in parliament .
"that means that , for this particular proposed regulation , there is still much to be done ."
"personally , I hope that mr dorfmann will be able to continue to have political input on this matter ."
"de mr president , I , too , would like to thank mr dorfmann for his report ."
many parts of it do not meet the needs of disadvantaged regions .
i question whether we will be able to manage with these natural criteria alone .
"we also need to look closely at the social situation , which plays a major role in disadvantaged regions ."
we ought to look at this again .
i think it sums up perfectly the issue as it stands today in terms of the commission's proposals .
it is the commissioner whom I would like to address in particular .
we therefore need to move forward and move forward quickly .
there seems to be a lot of confusion arising from the criteria for defining less favourable regions .
the cancellation of some of the previous agricultural regulation mechanisms by the eu has not been successful .
"pl mr president , the subsidising of european agriculture cannot be called into question ."
i share the views and fears of the author concerning the lack of expected effects of the new approach .
can it be that the criteria used up till now have been so inappropriate ?
we expect calculations and a more profound analysis of the effects .
an important question is how to maintain agricultural production in less favoured areas .
i would like to address a couple of issues .
the council has decided to remove the socio economic criteria from the objectives of natural handicap payments .
"so , the natural handicap payments are not the intervention lever that aims to tackle this issue of depopulation ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place in two weekstime , at the next part session in brussels ."
written statements rule 149 
in writing . I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work .
the importance of granting appropriate compensatory payments for less favoured areas is indisputable .
the market neither rewards nor compensates farmers for these achievements in areas where farming is at a natural disadvantage .
simplification of the cap short presentation 
"in this report , I suggested some of the principles which should underlie the reformed common agricultural policy ."
it is clear that the agricultural industry needs to change .
but what I have developed is two main themes .
i have highlighted four ways in which we can reduce the bureaucratic burden on farm businesses .
"firstly , we should ensure that the requirements made of the industry are proportionate to the risk assessed ."
"to do that , there is a need for a change of culture in the common agricultural policy ."
"it does need to adopt a more flexible , lighter touch approach ."
it also needs to be easier to interpret .
the reformed common agricultural policy must be able to publicly demonstrate the industry's delivery of public goods .
this report sets out a number of ways that that can be achieved .
the common agricultural policy needs to be simpler .
"for example , stock taking systems and possibly promotional activity for exports will also be necessary in the future ."
it is clear that there can be no simple way of maintaining these systems .
"de mr president , thank you , mr ashworth , for this excellent report ."
"the common agricultural policy is a successful policy , but we sometimes cloud this success in excessive bureaucracy ."
that is just as true of the first pillar of the agricultural policy as it is of the second .
that must be possible and we must endeavour to achieve it .
hu richard ashworth's report on simplification of the common agricultural policy sets out excellent proposals .
its great merit is that it examines the question from the perspective of farmers .
naturally it is also important for taxpayersmoney to be used in the most legitimate way possible .
"this , however , is only a means , not an end ."
the goal is to fulfil all the tasks of the sectoral policy .
"the boards of agriculture often confuse these two things , to the detriment of the achievement of the goal ."
a radical change in perspective is needed .
we must ensure that those with entitlements also have the right to turn to an independent court for remedy .
"in hungary , this is not yet possible ."
"it is , indeed , wonderful ."
"however , I want to point to two cases which require a somewhat different approach ."
"firstly , there are special areas of production where it is difficult to simplify support instruments ."
"i am thinking here of tobacco , hop and other specialist production of this kind ."
"our farmers would also be able to concentrate on their real job again , namely producing food ."
"member of the commission . mr president , simplification and better regulation are priorities for the commission ."
the commission fully agrees that simplification and reduction of administrative burden should be of particular benefit for farmers .
this will enable the farmers to spend more time on their core agricultural activities .
"during the past years , the commission has made substantial progress in simplifying the common agricultural policy ."
"but simplification is an ongoing process work will continue in 20moreover , there is an overall reflection process on the future of the common agricultural policy ."
"sometimes , simplification should not be made at the expense of the challenge that we could face ."
take as an example traceability .
we should not just abolish it because we have not had any crises .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place in two weekstime , at the next part session in brussels ."
written statements rule 149 
the new system must be based on objective and fair criteria .
reducing differences in payments in different member states is essential to achieving this objective .
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
agenda
they are new changes in relation to those we adopted yesterday at 17.they are additional changes .
"firstly , we are withdrawing question time with the council from the order of business ."
"in this way , the sitting on wednesday will close at 19.00 ."
i repeat that these matters have been consulted with the chairs of the political groups .
"i am just preparing an e mail to all members , which I will sign in person ."
some of us have not even reached strasbourg and also want to have this information .
"on thursday , all the committee meetings may be held , but no votes will be taken ."
the european parliament services will be here .
there will not be a plenary sitting .
"everything , apart from the plenary sitting , will be working as normal ."
the only difference from a normal day will be that there will be no plenary proceedings and no voting .
the rest will go ahead as normal on thursday .
"on thursday and friday , you will be able to sign the attendance register ."
"the remaining information will be given in the e mail , which will reach you before lunch at the latest ."
"yesterday , there was a meeting of the conference of presidents , and also a meeting of the bureau ."
quite a number of matters were decided .
"from now on , a task force will be at work which includes the parliamentary services ."
"decisions about this have not yet been made , but they will be made in the next few days ."
please expect brief information from me about everything that is decided and about everything we plan for the future .
disruption of air traffic in europe debate 
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on disruption of air traffic in europe .
"this will be , of course , the task of the commission and the council of ministers ."
these concern longer term answers to the present crisis .
we are going to want to get our parliamentary committees involved in this .
we must also think about how to respond to the present situation at the part session in brussels .
it may be that we will respond with a resolution .
i am talking about different ways of reacting .
"they are , first and foremost , the problems of our citizens , the residents of europe ."
"mr president , as everyone knows , air transport is absolutely strategic in nature ."
"it is , of course , an unexpected and unprecedented crisis that must be tackled in the appropriate manner ."
this is therefore a situation in which it is not easy to act from a european union perspective .
"despite that , we have acted and reacted ."
that brings me to the second part of my statement what action has been taken in this case .
safety has therefore been maintained as the priority .
we are open to receiving representatives of the european commission and the council and to discussing these problems .
we want to be involved in this .
we are ready for this .
"of course , we can only do what is possible for a legislative authority to do ."
"we cannot make executive decisions , but we want to help both the commission and the council ."
we are open to this .
that is why we are having this discussion .
"the house will know that 84 000 flights have been cancelled , affecting thousands of passengers ."
"there are , in my view , four key messages to convey following the council ."
all the transport ministers are in favour of a coordinated european response to the crisis .
"national solutions are not effective in dealing with these kinds of problems , which affect airspace globally ."
the second important point is that safety comes first .
there cannot be any compromise on safety .
"this is , and remains , our fundamental concern ."
we have to ensure the highest safety standards for our citizens .
"this started this morning at 08.00 , through eurocontrol ."
"three types of zones are included in this decision , based on the degree of contamination ."
"the third zone is not affected by ash , resulting in no restrictions of any type on operations ."
eurocontrol is providing maps every six hours with the relevant information for the national authorities .
"the main question for them , owing to all the economic consequences , is to resume flights ."
the model for resuming flights is the most important thing .
we should not panic about state aid and any other measures to help the air transport sector .
"passenger rights is another important issue , and we must enforce the implementation of passenger rights ."
the rules are good ones .
everyone shares the view that the rules are good .
"the question is enforcement , which again is in the hands of the member states ."
we should really push ahead with that and have several ideas on how to better enforce the rules .
this model is intergovernmental and airspace is a national competence .
there is nothing wrong with that model .
we can now think about how to modify the model .
we started discussing this yesterday .
to say that the european model completely failed is totally wrong .
"this was , and is , an extraordinary event ."
those kinds of decisions are in the hands of independent experts and independent bodies .
we were ready to take responsibility and ask what we should do to resolve the situation .
"however , these cannot be arbitrary decisions , but are in the hands of a special body ."
"that body held a meeting , and we held discussions with it , on sunday ."
"these were very difficult discussions , as what was under consideration were people's lives ."
we were very happy that eurocontrol was cooperative .
"we must also , of course , assess the consequences and outcome ."
"concerning passengers , the most important thing is to get people back home or to their destinations ."
that was the key issue addressed yesterday .
the model provided for now is quite suitable for resuming the vast majority of flights .
that is why it is important that we are having this emergency debate in parliament today .
safety is paramount .
let there be no misunderstanding about that .
but what happened in the days following this ?
"it is necessary that we carry out more work , tailored to our specific circumstances ."
we have to take decisive action .
"in addition , we need structural measures ."
airlines have suffered huge economic damage .
it is therefore extremely important that we coordinate this at a european level .
"not only the state aid framework , but also the effective provision of state aid ."
that is what I call on you to ensure .
i believe that we should be thinking about these people this morning .
"we are privileged members of the european parliament , who can make use of the available infrastructure ."
"however , many people are stranded in far flung corners of the world ."
i would like to say once again that my sympathy this morning is with these people .
i hope that it will be possible to get them home quickly .
"airlines are a vital part of our transport system , not only for passengers , but also for goods ."
it is important that we now acknowledge this fact once again .
we have not yet succeeded in bringing about the interoperability of trains between different countries .
this means that we are still not in the position that we should have reached .
"instead , we must adopt a sustained , ongoing approach to putting these new concepts into effect ."
"to a certain extent , we have been taught a lesson ."
"for 20 years , we have been talking about an internal market for transport and a single european sky ."
it is obvious that the response in europe was unsatisfactory from the point of view of the citizens .
many of the citizens of europe were annoyed about this .
the position of the airlines is also understandable .
they were suffering financially and would have liked to have seen a quicker response .
we must protect their rights .
"on this occasion , nature itself played the decisive role ."
the icelandic volcano has once again shown the human race the true power of nature .
we must take a lesson from this for the future .
the human race is not omnipotent and never will be .
it is right that the response to this volcanic eruption has come from europe .
either the airspace is safe or it is not .
"ultimately , it does not matter under which rules planes are flying or under which rules they are crashing ."
we are calling for the european airspace to only be opened again when there is no risk at all .
these policies have focused entirely on air transport .
this puts the airlinestemporary loss of income into perspective .
"however , there is one conclusion which we must draw from all of this ."
the volcanic eruption in iceland should be a warning to all of us .
what we are now experiencing is the reality of the future of transport .
i think it is only right that we have today at least managed to partially resume flights .
i therefore approve of an approach that takes into account the differences in concentration of volcanic dust .
"this reopening is desperately needed , I think , because the icelandic ash is starving our airlines of cash ."
the possibility that a few struggling airlines might collapse in this crisis does not cause me much concern .
"however , we cannot allow major and reputable companies which put safety first to collapse ."
too much money and too many jobs are at stake .
"in addition , we have to work with a realistic approach that takes into account dust particle concentration ."
it is right that some parts of the airspace should be reopened today .
"in my opinion , it is irresponsible for airlines to ask their pilots to fly at their own risk ."
what doesat their own riskactually mean in this case ?
we will be talking later about employment in the european union .
it is high time that the commission put in place a permanent common european monitoring system for aviation safety .
this monitoring system should be specifically designed to prevent social dumping .
competition and the pursuit of profit must not be allowed to take priority over the safety of human lives .
"it is true that some restrictions have perhaps been excessive , especially where safety is concerned ."
"why , though , ban flights in belgium when the cloud was in norway ?"
"i therefore call for swift action , serious action , and action in full knowledge of the facts ."
"de mr president , ladies and gentlemen , safety has priority over all other considerations ."
both planes narrowly escaped disaster .
human life is priceless .
these flights were not able to carry out any real analyses or produce any significant results .
"nature teaches us respect and , at the same time , makes clear to us the limits of globalisation ."
we are all highly aware of the serious financial consequences .
"however , a human life is worth much more than goods ."
this coordination has worked exceptionally well .
"in my opinion , the top priority is the safety of passengers ."
"the financial aspect is less important , although we must not lose sight of it ."
the individual countries made the right decision .
"for this reason , we must be extremely cautious ."
"aid is needed , but not only at a national level ."
"justifiably , we have discussed this subject often in parliament ."
"for me , the future lies in the single european sky ."
we need to give our attention to that .
that is another model .
let us see how we can really integrate safety and efficiency with that .
my third and last point is about how we are coping with the economic impact .
"it is a good idea to list the various possibilities , but we need a european approach ."
that is simply not possible .
why is it that the council always thinks in intergovernmental and national terms and not in european terms ?
that is one of the lessons which we are going to have to take away from this situation .
"well , give europe those powers , at long last !"
that would make things a lot simpler .
my second point concerns scientific information .
"that was , indeed , the right decision to make , but does that go far enough ?"
this volcano has not finished erupting yet .
"when it last erupted 200 years ago , it remained active for ten years ."
"so , we need to make preparations for the years to come ."
i find that extraordinary .
there is no pocket book precaution .
safety and the common good are the priority .
"as for the rest , I believe that we must , of course , develop rail transport ."
i also believe that diversity of transport and modes of transport is important .
"i also believe that , structurally speaking , we must provide far greater support for videoconferencing ."
i believe that support for such practices would help us to reduce our dependence on air travel .
the diversification of the situation which arose was not taken into account at all .
we should like to say here that the principle of passenger safety must be reaffirmed as the priority principle .
"i should like , at the same time , to say that europe suffers from too little credibility ."
"da mr president , I have two important points to make ."
"secondly , I would like to thank all the parties involved for their efforts ."
it remains to be decided whether or not airlines will be financially compensated .
the outcome will be decided by the debates in the days ahead .
it is good to hear that there is now a three step plan .
i am pleased about that .
i hope that we here in parliament will immediately reject that model .
"however , aircraft are vulnerable not only to terrorist attacks , but also to extreme weather conditions ."
aircraft are highly energy intensive and polluting .
"mr president , today we know better than we did a week ago that jet free skies cost a lot ."
the cost to airlines goes beyond their lost revenues .
"other industries are affected , though there are also industries benefiting from the situation ."
i would like to raise two issues .
the first is related to state aid .
"the european commission also offers fast track procedures to state aid , which is appreciated ."
is state aid through national budgets the best solution ?
are any other options being considered by the european commission ?
the second issue is related to the european union's capacity to manage crises .
"i can assure you , commissioner , that you can be totally independent and still coordinate ."
"however , the situation on the railways remains appalling ."
this is not acceptable .
where would we be today if we had implemented the provisions of the so called delors plan ?
we would already have the trans european networks and we would have more high speed rail lines and high speed trains .
we need a certain amount of reserves .
we must also put more emphasis on accommodation .
they also need to have immediate effects that everyone can see .
we therefore also need greater transparency now that the three zones have been defined .
we want to know what they are and what they are going to mean .
"secondly , they have the right to be guaranteed total respect for passengersrights ."
the final thing that they have a right to be guaranteed is state aid for the airlines .
what this current crisis has very clearly shown is the need to develop european coordination and interoperability further .
"mr president , as has already been said , no one could have predicted the recent events in iceland ."
"at least , that is the way the public perceives it ."
this has been a disaster for all concerned .
"long term prognosis , not decisions by knee jerk bulletin , is what is required ."
"moreover , travel agencies are exempt from the obligation to compensate travellers for unused flights ."
"that is not right , either ."
the eruption of the volcano in iceland has highlighted to us the weakness of the european transport system .
"in these circumstances , the rapid provision of accurate information to passengers was an absolute must ."
passenger safety must be our overriding concern .
another increasingly paramount aspect is the development of transport along inland waterways and of the european maritime corridors .
let us demonstrate political will and stick to our slogan keep europe moving !.
i come from a country ireland where we are two sea crossings from mainland europe .
"after the announcements last night , there was real hope that the situation would ease ."
we must deal with this from the centre .
"i agree that dealing with it from 27 perspectives , or countries , is not successful ."
one of the biggest problems facing the passengers today is the confusion .
the president cut off the speaker 
"indeed , many of our own colleagues from far flung corners of europe have been left stranded this week ."
it has also reminded us of how addicted we have become to air transportation .
we know we must reduce that dependency in the years to come .
"we should welcome investments in advanced communications systems for virtual meetings , as well as investment in high speed railways ."
"finally , plans to reduce unnecessary travel should be welcomed ."
that is clearly one area where parliament could lead by example .
"an inadequate response may be justified in such cases , but only once ."
we must closely analyse what happened and prepare an effective response in the event of such a phenomenon recurring .
the information about the eruption's consequences was inadequate .
"the companiesresponse was late and disjointed , which created major problems for passengers ."
"this year , the exact same thing is happening with the european freight corridors ."
i believe that member states should understand something about what has happened now .
member statesresponse was inadequate and it failed to provide transport via other means .
"currently in europe , it is not possible to buy a train ticket in a civilised manner ."
"what is needed is coordination , responsibility and a decision making facility , all at european union level ."
"el mr president , the skill of the captain shows in the storm ."
"just as we were slow to react to the economic storm , but that is another story ."
there are two aspects to today's debate 
"firstly , as regards the ban on flights and coordination ."
that is a matter for the competent national authorities .
that terrifies me .
"nl mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , good morning ."
"we are dealing with exceptional circumstances here , of course ."
we clearly have to learn from this situation and take appropriate measures .
the rapporteur is mr ferreira .
plenary will very soon be able to formulate parliament's position on these subjects .
i agree with the members who have said that we are poorly prepared for natural disasters .
"fortunately , europe has few natural disasters ."
"in my opinion , it all took too long ."
five days before a test flight took place and real data was collected is simply too long .
we must learn from this .
"if this volcanic ash has made one thing clear , it is the need for more europe ."
"mr kallas , you have said that the national authorities have responsibilities ."
"however , this does not help the people who have suffered as a result ."
we need more europe in civil protection and in a common transport policy .
the treaty of lisbon opens up more opportunities for us .
this situation must improve .
must these test flights be carried out by civil aviation and the airlines ?
"so far , however , only isolated and national initiatives have been taken ."
repatriating them must be our priority .
"although this approach is precautionary , as it has to be , it raises important questions ."
the work done at european and national level was not sufficient .
ending the uncertainty as soon as possible will also help us to get out of this crisis .
"the railways , the roads and the maritime sector put together have not managed to replace it ."
"pl mr president , mr kallas , we are certainly dealing with a crisis situation ."
"i do hope , however , that we are able to draw several constructive conclusions ."
"thirdly , the question of passengers ."
i think the decision to halt flights out of concern for passenger safety was a wise one .
they have acted according to the principle that safety is paramount .
we can discuss whether the ash cloud should have been investigated more quickly .
"i believe that this would have been possible , but in principle , what was done was acceptable ."
i was called yesterday by three people who are in this situation .
they have already spent a whole week at the airport .
these are issues which we in the european parliament need to think about and discuss .
"we must offer these people solutions , give them support and make useful proposals ."
we cannot abandon the european citizens who are in this situation we must help them .
"thank you very much , ladies and gentlemen ."
"the safety objective has therefore been achieved , and we can only be pleased about that ."
there are still two problems today the first is that of the timescale .
could action have been taken sooner ?
could it have been taken earlier ?
could action not have been taken earlier ?
this requires answers .
the president cut off the speaker 
"fr mr president , this debate has given rise to many speeches by transport specialists ."
the directive on package travel will probably be reviewed .
"we have to answer the question , here , as to how this should be improved ."
we know that huge amounts of money will be needed to repair the financial situation of these businesses .
the president cut off the speaker 
"es mr president , the commissioner talked about the procedures being absurd and obsolete ."
let us therefore be consistent .
there should be no minimum services there should be maximum services for all .
"the experience we are gaining is too expensive , but is very instructive ."
"we should draw the right conclusions , and here are some which suggest themselves immediately ."
"thirdly , efficient transport is the lifeblood of the economy ."
"firstly , the european union should coordinate matters relating to safety and decide whether or not aeroplanes can fly ."
this must not be exclusively for member states to decide .
"secondly , we need to think about the question of economic responsibility ."
i hope those rapid procedures will be introduced .
the impact of air travel on the climate in the european union is huge .
it is greater than that of refineries and steel works .
the president cut off the speaker 
what we have experienced is something we will experience again .
"as for the environment , we have certainly done it a huge favour over the past couple of days ."
"we need to respond immediately and responsibly and , above all , with passenger safety in mind ."
"if one thing is clear , it is that our society is extremely vulnerable to crises of this kind ."
we need a safety net .
we want passengers from europe to be transported safely .
"we want safety , but we also want transport options ."
i believe that we need all the means of transport currently available .
"we need aircraft , as we cannot replace flying with another solution ."
a lot has been said about high speed trains .
"for this reason , I think we should take one step at a time ."
"if we are all able to convince our parties , the situation will improve in future ."
"however , I believe that passenger safety and consumer protection must come above everything else ."
"i call on the european union , therefore , to pull itself together ."
we are told that we need more europe .
"therefore , improving scientific tests and also coordination at the level ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"fr mr president , the precautionary principle has become a principle of irresponsibility ."
"in the face of the slightest risk , the precautionary principle has become an invitation to abandon all responsibility ."
no so calledresponsibleparties dare shoulder their responsibilities any longer .
a potential influenza epidemic ?
"hey presto , thousands of people are invited to be vaccinated ."
an erupting volcano ?
"i repeat , mr speroni , mrs ferreira , the action was immediate ."
"on friday , it became apparent that a serious situation was setting in ."
"therefore , action was taken ."
"today , yesterday's decision by the extraordinary council of ministers is being implemented ."
"airspace is therefore gradually being opened up , but this will naturally depend on the conditions and on nature ."
"firstly , it means that the risk assessment model is much more precise , much more accurate ."
it also means that citizensrights and their mobility can be taken into consideration .
we are therefore calling for their right to free movement to be respected .
"people are being treated like dirt in train stations , by airlines and by authorities in airports ."
we are being far too polite .
"in brussels central station , there are six information points four of them are closed ."
"this debate should be far longer , and more members should be allowed to participate in it ."
"that has been mentioned several times , today ."
everyone from the european parliament who spoke before you raised these matters .
i have four additional ones to make .
"first of all , these events have given us much food for thought as regards our strategic plans ."
this is a very serious issue .
"yesterday , we discussed it with the council of ministers as well ."
"concerning the economic impact , we will take all aspects into account and will make proposals ."
"however , we should be careful ."
we must be very balanced in our approach .
there can be no miracle .
"as regards passengersrights , the rules are very clear ."
some members asked about the rules and whether we should revisit them .
"i do not think we should revisit the rules adopted by european decision makers , including the european parliament ."
they are good .
the question is a very different one .
"it is that of implementation and enforcement , which is in the hands of member states ."
it is clear what must be done concerning passengersrights today .
"well , I was active all the time ."
i was at eurocontrol .
i was in contact with ministers .
it is the same dilemma safety versus flexibility .
we were prepared for a volcanic eruption but we had different types of evidence regarding the eruption .
this was mentioned here as well .
now we have a more differentiated approach .
now we have flexibility and the matter is still in the hands of the member states .
this is a big opportunity .
those are the comments I wanted to make .
we said that passengersrights should be taken very seriously .
that is the picture .
the case is not closed .
we have three or four days at least before the majority of flights resume .
it is still a difficult situation and we must deal with the consequences .
thank you for your remarks .
we will have several opportunities to discuss this matter further .
"the debate which we are now ending was , certainly , the most important item of our proceedings ."
"if only because of this debate , it was worth meeting here in strasbourg ."
it is the most important topic .
it is very important that they have listened to your remarks .
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
"everyone is trying to deal with the unexpected problem , but the inadequate provision of information aggravated the situation ."
"often , passengers were not provided with adequate information either by telephone or via the internet ."
confusion was further caused by the fact that the aviation authorities and airlines issued contradictory information .
there was also a lack of coordination between air and ground transport .
i welcome the commission's decisive crisis management steps .
we should use our imagination .
we do not usually think about the huge significance of air transport .
thank you very much .
"to date , tens of thousands of flights have been cancelled , making it impossible for passengers to travel ."
we did not know until the last minute if the part session would be held at all .
"an emergency such as the one caused by the icelandic volcano was never expected , however ."
the airlines have suffered the greatest financial losses .
this possibility must be avoided .
"until now , many still cannot admit that they feel protected ."
it is this to which I would like to draw your attention .
"in recent years , air transport has had a clear lead over other means of transport ."
"it was faster , safer and more convenient for passengers ."
no justification is required for air traffic security .
i hope that the single european sky will become a reality one day .
"in my view , the session must be held as normal ."
commission legislative and work programme for 2010 debate 
i would like to stress that a good number of commissioners are also present in the chamber .
"the whole european commission is strongly represented , because the subject is extremely important for all of us ."
"president barroso , thank you for coming ."
it has not been easy for any of us to get to strasbourg .
"many members have not arrived at the european parliament , so the attendance is not very high ."
so there are some quite new rules for this part session .
it is also the first work programme since the treaty of lisbon came into effect .
this programme is the direct outcome of our political dialogue .
"this being so , it provides a solid platform for achieving ambitious results ."
"first , the urgent issues we recently debated the results of the european council ."
"meanwhile , the proposed financial support mechanism for greece was finally put in place on 11 april ."
"our involvement has always been in line with the principle of solidarity , but also of responsibility ."
we need a permanent mechanism for resolving crises .
we all know that the collective interest of europe is at stake here .
the union must strengthen the system and take into consideration the whole spectrum of risks and economic imbalances .
we need to improve internal mechanisms .
i am convinced that our proposal on hedge funds and private equity will soon reach a decisive stage .
the protection of ordinary consumers of financial services will receive special attention .
"mr president , distinguished members of parliament , this commission hit the ground running ."
"at european level , our action must have genuine european added value ."
this is where europe can make the difference .
"thus , we will help drive the transition to a resource efficient and climate change resilient economy ."
"fighting climate change will remain a top priority on our agenda , both internally and globally ."
i want to underline the importance of social inclusion in our vision for europe 20the real strength of a society rests on the opportunities it creates for its weakest citizens .
we must seize every opportunity to encourage employment and social cohesion .
that means being ready to exploit the emerging sectors which will generate new jobs .
it means providing people with the right skills to create and sustain high employment levels and facilitate economic transition .
the concerns and well being of european citizens will remain at the heart of commission action .
it puts citizens at the core of our policies by facilitating the exercise of their specific rights .
the entry into force of the lisbon treaty also gives us the tools to demonstrate greater ambition .
action now will pay dividends in the future .
"we will project our europe 2020 objectives on the global market place , for example , through the gin parallel , we will be making more detailed assessments of key areas , including agriculture and cohesion ."
i can assure you that parliament will be fully associated at all stages of the budget review .
"before finishing , I would like to briefly explain a number of innovations in the work programme ."
i am sure you agree that this is an ambitious agenda for the next eight months .
"at the same time , the programme includes many other initiatives for 2010 and beyond ."
this indicative list comprises initiatives on which the commission intends to work over the coming years .
not all of these initiatives will necessarily lead to the submission of concrete proposals .
one thing we have learned in recent years is that we should always predict the unpredictable .
"they expect it from us , and we have a duty to work for their prosperity and well being ."
i would just like to stress that the strategic partnership of which you spoke is very important to us .
thank you very much for this .
we have every confidence that this process can be restored in 2011 after overcoming minor difficulties .
the european people's party prepared two lists with regard to the commission's plans .
we sent the details to you even before acceptance .
"if this continues to be the case in the future , then these sorts of debates are pointless ."
and what they eventually achieved had nothing whatsoever to do with the final objectives .
the other things we ask of the commission is not to tolerate lies and deception .
"this was the case in hungary , this was the case in greece ."
the commission ought to exercise its competence in this regard .
do not misunderstand me .
i am not saying that the commission is to blame for these crises .
now let us move on to what the commission should do .
it should place citizens at the centre of our work .
"jobs , jobs , jobs must be our guiding principle ."
we consider it important that small and medium sized enterprises take an active part in the process of job creation .
they would not like it if the 2020 job creation programme was shoved down parliament's throat .
let us learn from the failure of the lisbon programme yet another name that no one understands !
let us work for the security of our citizens and let us take the steps necessary in this regard .
"unfortunately , I cannot say the same thing about my fellow members ."
i am ashamed to say that not all of those who are not here are genuinely not here .
"they are in strasbourg , but they are not in the chamber where they should be ."
i find that very sad .
how can we ensure that this happens in an era of budgetary consolidation ?
it goes without saying that we must consolidate our budgets .
my next point relates to the budgetary consolidation .
we need more investment .
we discussed this earlier on this morning with mr kallas .
"we have invested too little , for example , in the trans european networks ."
we cannot tolerate this .
"mr barroso , you referred to the monti report ."
"however , when we talk about the single market , we must also refer to the social market economy ."
"in this context , public services in particular are very important to us ."
you have agreed to submit proposals for a framework directive .
i would now like to come to my final and decisive point .
you spoke about the economic crisis and also about greece and other countries which are in difficulties .
"you referred to this , but I believe that we need more than references ."
we need the commission to call for these things with a powerful voice .
it is about preventing these things from happening as far as possible by monitoring economic and budgetary changes .
"once again , I can hear governments saying that we cannot investigate their statistics or their budgetary procedure ."
this is not acceptable .
why do governments have to keep their statistics and their budget procedures secret ?
"of course , governments must have a certain freedom ."
"mr barroso , we are ready to enter into the special partnership that you referred to ."
"however , this partnership must be based on a strong position for parliament and for the commission ."
"in the days to come , we will be negotiating on the framework agreement ."
"it specifies some of the details , but the decisive factor is the spirit behind it ."
this is why the commission must have a powerful voice .
"however , we must both fight for a strong europe ."
"this is very important , particularly in the light of the recent behaviour of some heads of government ."
"on financial regulation first of all , I fully understand what mr barnier is trying to do ."
i would very much like it if we worked on concrete projects along those lines .
i cannot see any such projects in this programme today .
i also believe that we need far reaching projects .
"at present , we have 28 000 flights each day in the european union ."
this really is the time to revive this europe of the railways that has been spoken about for decades .
"however , I believe that nothing will be achieved without genuine economic coordination and economic governance ."
"we urgently need budgetary , economic and industrial coordination ."
"although it is a word that is no longer used , we need to work towards fiscal convergence ."
i am thinking in particular of the issue of corporate taxation .
"moreover , we will need to work on an own resource for the eu budget ."
i believe that these would be powerful acts that might well put us back on the path to growth .
we are talking here about the european social model that we want and that we love .
we will have to work on this .
the work programme that you have presented is very wide ranging and contains headings that sound very ambitious .
even the introduction has the titlea new era.
"however , I am not sure that the details underneath these major headings do justice to this positive sounding approach ."
this is still all about the climate crisis and the financial and economic crisis .
this means that we are facing major challenges .
have we drawn the right conclusions from the financial crisis and the subsequent economic crisis ?
we also support energy taxation .
you will be able to rely on us if you finally put this into practice .
it is clear that our response to the greek situation has been inadequate .
we do not think it is acceptable that no proposal is now being made on eurobonds .
the groups in parliament have also asked you about this .
this means that you are already breaking one of your major promises .
mrs hedegaard's people have not yet decided .
i hope that they will set more ambitious objectives .
there is still a lot to do .
that approach was wrong and it failed .
we therefore welcome the new direction which has been developed by president barroso .
"the european economy is still in deep crisis , and only consistent action will change that situation ."
we therefore strongly support the centre piece initiative of this commission the 2020 strategy .
this must be the overriding priority defining the commission .
"the commission must be their ally , not their adversary ."
"in taking a lead in developing a vibrant , dynamic european economy , president barroso will have our support ."
"we do not , of course , like everything ."
"why , though , is it time to act ?"
is it because no one has acted yet and the title is a piece of self criticism ?
i will give you an example .
is that another joke ?
how does the commission intend to share the benefits of something that does not exist economic growth ?
our disagreement with you is about policy .
that is a recipe for more unemployment .
when will we have the european credit rating agency ?
"ask the portuguese , whose debt interest goes up every time a commissioner decides to talk about economics ."
ask the european public .
another important element for the competitiveness of businesses is the international trade situation .
"at this time of crisis , it is important to strengthen the european union's trade defence system ."
the problem is that the eu has not faced up to globalisation it has embraced it .
it is allowing a flood of imports from developing economies with wage rates a fraction of those in europe .
"i am not , of course , even in favour of membership of the european union ."
"however , my message is also for europhiles ."
"globalisation must be resisted , individually or collectively , or it will destroy us all ."
there is no doubt that ageing populations are a concern in many countries .
"however , we must examine why the problems occurred ."
"they work in order to pay the bills , not because they have a disdain for motherhood ."
"however , we do not have to take a laissez faire approach to economic forces ."
the children of such immigrants are allegedly as european as the indigenous population they are not .
distinctive cultures are made by distinctive peoples and not the other way round .
we are not the product of our cultures our cultures are the products of our peoples .
replacing europeans with people from the third world will mean that europe will be replaced by the third world .
europe is slowly but steadily being ethnically cleansed of europeans .
we need greater ambition in europe .
one example to which mrs de sarnez referred is the issue of financial regulation .
"the important thing now , I would stress , is to understand the principle of subsidiarity properly ."
i am in favour of subsidiarity .
subsidiarity means deciding which level of decision making is best .
that is unbelievable !
"if there is one area that comes under national jurisdiction , it is european air traffic control ."
the decision was taken by each european national regulator .
yet the very people who are against european level powers are now protesting against europe .
it is all really rather extraordinary .
applause 
let us be clear .
there are different levels of responsibility national levels and european levels .
"in each case , we have to see which is the most appropriate level ."
let us show some common sense !
"the 2020 agenda , I believe , focuses europe on what is most important ."
we shall try to prove equal to the task with which you are entrusting us .
applause 
"thank you very much , mr barroso , for your statement ."
we think that this is good for europeans that it is good for our citizens .
"now , we have to accept more responsibility and use the opportunities presented by the treaty ."
the commission has worked very hard .
it is also grateful to the european parliament .
i am sure that we are going to have parliament's cooperation as well .
thank you for your statement on behalf of the council and your support for the commission's programme .
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
"therefore , we must firstly focus particular attention on the problem of poverty facing those in work ."
"most attention should be paid to increasing youth unemployment , one of society's most acute problems ."
we must provide for labour relations that promote employment and ensure the possibility of life long learning .
i would like to underline that we should also discuss the employment of disabled people .
"therefore , I would like to ask the commission how europe will create new jobs ?"
what are the real chances for people to enter the labour market ?
how can we ensure quality employment so that we can reduce the poverty of those in work ?
the commission work programme for 2010 consists of 14 pages of the usual commonplaces and platitudes .
it is right that europe must respond jointly to the crisis .
"nevertheless , no one wants to change anything ."
the europe 2020 strategy is intended to be the response to the current crisis .
the commission work programme for 2010 has established the right priorities .
"in my view , the commission has been somewhat cautious in taking up this approach ."
we need to be laying the foundations for this now .
"i congratulate mr barroso on the ambitious commission legislative and work programme for 20unfortunately , time is running out there are already only eight months left ."
"in spite of this , I hope the priorities will not be only empty promises ."
the strength of the programme is its measures for combating the crisis .
"unfortunately , these concern mainly the economic situation ."
we have been working on the phenomenon of violence against women for years .
"it is high time there were effective , european legal regulations in this area ."
"unfortunately , there are no specific details of any kind about this ."
they have to be given at the meeting of the council in june .
"this must be a process , and not electioneering ."
only then will the results of referendums not be a surprise .
i would like to stress the importance of the cohesion policy in the implementation of the various european policies .
it is vital to define the guidelines for cohesion policy and the financial perspective for the post 2013 period .
the eu's primary concern is to combat the economic crisis and support its social market economy .
the increase in the employment rate is closely linked to the eu's industrial policy .
when will the commission table a proposal concerning the necessary funding for the development of the trans european transport infrastructure ?
coordination of humanitarian aid and reconstruction in haiti debate 
the next item is the commission statement on coordination of humanitarian aid and reconstruction in haiti .
"the first is the continuation of humanitarian assistance and , in particular , shelter , sanitation and health services ."
"with the approach of the hurricane season , they have to be urgently relocated ."
"this is a priority in our programme , as is strengthening camp management skills ."
we are paying very close attention to the pre positioning of relief stocks .
most of them were completely depleted after the earthquake .
we have made sure that our help reaches the whole of the country and not just port au prince .
"in this way , we have contributed to reducing the pressures in the capital ."
the dominican republic matters also and is not forgotten in our recovery programme .
"thirdly , we are making sure that donor coordination results in building on each other's comparative advantage ."
"fourthly , we must ensure the transition from humanitarian relief to recovery and reconstruction ."
we are working very closely with andris piebalgs to facilitate this transition whenever possible .
i will give you two specific examples .
"firstly , in the food sector , we are encouraging local purchasing of food ."
"that , of course , leads to work on reconstruction ."
"last but not least , we are very focused on results ."
the new york conference took place in a very good spirit .
"some members of the european parliament could see that ngos , including european ngos , had a voice there ."
it is very important now that we concentrate our aid as quickly as possible .
i will also inaugurate a school in mirabelais .
delivering budget support is not blind support .
i will keep the european parliament constantly informed of the progress made on haiti reconstruction .
"it is the ownership not only of the responsible commissioner , but of the whole college ."
we also need to discuss with the authorities a couple of issues on how to better deliver our assistance .
"two aspects stand out , in particular ."
that will build genuine national consensus around the development plan and promote the stability necessary for its implementation .
"on behalf of the ppe group . mr president , I would like to thank both commissioners ."
there are three points I want to raise .
the first is the method and measures to be used for measuring the reconstruction needs of haiti .
the world bank has done excellent work on this .
the haitian ambassador attended when I launched that particular book .
the third point I want to make is this .
"again , I thank both commissioners for their presentation ."
"the reconstruction efforts are only just getting under way , as you told us ."
problems will also crop up associated with having the necessary workforce and the extent of their training .
i can assure you that the same thing also applies to all the members of the committee on development .
"first things first , it is important to provide for sufficiently robust shelters , in sufficient quantities ."
seeking to pull out of the humanitarian effort now would be quite simply irresponsible .
delaying the reconstruction effort would be equally irresponsible .
"the donorsconference , which was held at the united nations on 31 march , was a success ."
what will remain of that conference when everything has been forgotten ?
"second , in a similar vein , the revival of the agricultural sector becomes the economic priority ."
"today , haiti needs 80 % of its export earnings to pay for its imported agricultural produce ."
"let us remember that , in the past , there were times when haiti met its own food needs ."
what is stopping the proposals in mr barnier's report from being turned into a reality ?
"lastly , europe's significant efforts to help solve the haitian problem will have been decisive ."
i would also like to stress an important matter supervision of this aid .
let us never forget that the terrible destitution of the haitians is not due solely to a terrible earthquake .
it is also the result of the domination and pillaging of haiti by many countries .
"mr president , shortly after the disaster , an assessment was carried out in order to establish aid priorities ."
it is therefore imperative that haitian organisations and authorities are involved in the reconstruction effort .
"in other words , we need to mobilise support in haiti itself ."
we need to make a significant investment in local agriculture if we are to guarantee food security .
only today I read a whole page article in frankfurter allgemeine about the current situation in haiti .
it was truly heartbreaking .
i understand that housing and education are the priorities of the european commission .
keep working towards that goal .
"i wish you every success and , above all , god's help ."
the critical period is probably still not over .
"what should be done , then ?"
"their example shows that in the majority of cases , there is no contradiction between security and humanitarian action ."
"moreover , without security , it is difficult to maintain independence and neutrality in humanitarian work ."
"this is an acknowledgement we have to give to the armed forces of many european countries , including spain ."
"so , congratulations !"
the donorsassistance must clearly be well coordinated and of a high quality .
"as president préval says , reconstruction must be carried out more effectively ."
"for the first time , the european union spoke with one voice through baroness ashton ."
"the agricultural sector has to be a priority , and we must strengthen the country's agricultural production capacities ."
we need to create fixed funding mechanisms .
european resources need to be used efficiently .
we need to have specialist staff who can design and implement humanitarian aid programmes quickly and efficiently .
"obviously , an earthquake caused the disaster in haiti ."
"on the basis of the haitian government's action plan , the eu has pledged eur 1.6 billion ."
"this will be a long process , in my view ."
"after all , the haitians do not just have short term needs , but long term needs as well ."
you have confirmed that yourselves .
it is the people's perception that the aid is not reaching the places where it is needed .
how can we ensure that the political situation in this country and the approach of its government improve ?
"these measures have two basic stages , and we are talking about these two stages today ."
"thank you very much , mr piebalgs , for seeing that responsibility must also be borne by the haitians ."
the third stage is something only for us .
it is possible .
it can be set up quickly before the next disaster .
i call on you now to stop talking about coordination and to act .
sk the earthquake in haiti was immediately followed by international humanitarian assistance .
not many countries provided rapid and effective aid .
not even the experience of several rescue groups was sufficient .
good intentions also require a practical side in order to be effective .
i also agree that it will be good to focus on the whole island .
i also urge you not to forget the future commitments that we need to make .
we need to stick to the pledges we are making now .
"people must receive concrete help , and not just after a long period of time ."
i hope that people will focus their attention on this matter and that rapid action groups will be established .
this has been very useful and very encouraging for us .
"i would like to start with the bigger policy issue , on the eu improving its response capabilities ."
i can assure you that this is a very high priority for our team .
"i can tell you that tomorrow , we are going to our first country visit on this topic ."
this is going to be a very high priority for our team in the coming months .
let me turn to four questions that have been posed .
this is something we are watching very closely .
i want to address the issue of shelter .
they do not want to move for a variety of reasons .
but we are addressing this as a priority .
let me finish with the question of long term sustainability .
"it is governance sustainability , it is also ecological sustainability ."
"in haiti , an ecologically destroyed island , of course it had implications for the scale of this destruction ."
we are thinking in the long term when we think of chile .
this is not in my area but I have to pick it up as a former world bank employee .
it felt that the whole of european society wished that the european community make reconstruction a major effort .
we are definitely not creating anything parallel .
we are working on the same bases and on well prepared ground .
"regarding the commitment on the eu side , we have made a political commitment and we will deliver ."
i believe that the same is also very true for other participants .
we are working on property rights .
that is one of the risk elements .
"we have a land cadastre and we will work on it , but there could be risks ."
the risks could definitely come from ownership of the political process .
i believe that this can be put in place and could be successful .
there are many more people still working and trying to do their best .
"they are the guarantee that , if the process is well organised , it will be successful ."
the debate is closed .
the sitting was suspended at 13.10 and resumed at 15.05 
written statements rule 149 
it is now time for us to carry out an interim review of the aid effort in haiti .
does the aid support sustainable development in haiti ?
how was the entire aid effort coordinated ?
how was the eu represented in foreign policy terms ?
the purpose of the office of high representative is to strengthen the eu's role as a global player .
some member states launched individual aid campaigns and others acted jointly .
baroness ashton should have been responsible for ensuring better coordination .
"in addition , the government of haiti has not been sufficiently involved ."
the high representative should now at last be realising what her job is all about .
she should be making constructive proposals for structuring humanitarian and financial aid following major disasters .
"ladies and gentlemen , we have gathered here today to discuss european coordination of aid for haiti ."
"meanwhile , international commentators are criticising our uncoordinated action ."
the allocation by the european union of eur 1.2 billion for aid to haiti is worthy of praise .
world donors have declared that they will give usd 5.3 billion for the reconstruction of haiti over two years .
"in the longer term , the value of their aid is to rise to usd 9.9 billion ."
these are very optimistic sums .
international society has let haiti down .
let us do more to make up for this now .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
question hour with the president of the commission
the next item is the question hour with the president of the commission .
questions on any subject on behalf of political groups .
then the second part of the sitting questions on the employment situation in the european union .
"this reading is therefore quite surprising , but it is indeed happening ."
"secondly , its role is to promote initiatives and to take the lead in initiatives ."
what is your view on this approach ?
"president of the commission . as you said , mr karas , there is no decision yet ."
we aim to reinforce the preventive and corrective arm of the stability and growth pact .
"given an estimated total of eur 8.4 billion , that makes a profit of eur 620 million ."
i want to underline this .
it is not .
it is a coordination of loans .
the commission will have this responsibility .
"the imf will also be in the scheme which , I have to say , is a creative one ."
"therefore , I will repeat it ."
the treaty says that a member state cannot be forced to take on debts .
the treaty does not say that it is forbidden to take on debts .
"this must be made clear , or else it just becomes a cacophony about the treaty ."
i repeat the treaty clearly states that a member state cannot be forced to take on debts .
my question is slightly different .
i am not here to reply on behalf of mrs merkel .
i am here to reply on behalf of the commission .
let us be clear about that .
let us also be clear from the point of view of the commission .
the solution that has been found scrupulously respects what is known as the no bail out clause .
"naturally , we have been very cautious on that point ."
i want to talk about the communication regarding strengthened governance of the euro area .
you could at least say so publicly .
"that would form part of the debate in germany , but you are incapable of saying these simple things ."
i would like to ask another question about acta .
"you have been negotiating the acta agreement against piracy and counterfeiting since 200in march , a european parliament resolution told you to scale down the acta negotiations on counterfeiting ."
"otherwise , you are going to find yourself in the same situation with parliament as you experienced with swift ."
parliament is every bit as important as a large company .
"as you know , they are going to be made public tomorrow , 21 april ."
you spoke about the coming into force of the treaty of lisbon .
we shall do it .
it was parliament's insistence on scrapping the national opt outs from the directive which led to the stalemate .
"it is too early , at this stage , to have fixed ideas about the substance of any changes ."
"as you know , there is a consultation paper that is deliberately open in tone ."
i also want to hear the social partnersviews .
this is a very difficult issue and an extremely sensitive one .
that is what we are going to do .
that is why we are appealing to the social partners also to come forward with a constructive proposal .
"mr barroso , you have spoken about your work programme and it has been discussed in parliament ."
you have said that you want to follow up on the critical remarks .
i have one question .
"recently , we have spoken a great deal about the crisis and how to overcome it ."
"however , I have the impression that very little has changed in the way the banks do business ."
i would also be interested to hear the answer to another question .
do you think that we and the commission have done enough ?
"we have done a big part of it , but another important part remains to be done ."
i think the commission proposals were the right ones .
"but I think there are some specific things , to be more concrete , that we can do ."
"for instance , I am supporting the idea of a bank levy ."
"i think that should be a matter for the gso , as always , it is a question of balance ."
"mr barroso , I have another brief question ."
"the chair of deutsche bank , dr ackermann , is a difficult man to make an impression on ."
he has recently said outright that he wants to make returns of 25 % .
he is not changing anything .
he has said that he wants to make returns of 25 % once again .
president of the commission . absolutely not .
i think it is in the interests of the financial sector to have credibility .
let us be honest and open about it .
we need a proper level of regulation .
on the contrary it aims at building trust .
the financial sector needs this kind of credibility to finance the economy .
that is my question .
"in fact , the problem created in the united states was not created by big banks only ."
"it was also created by non commercial banks , by investment societies , by hedge funds as well ."
so we do not agree with that analysis that it was created by big banks .
"in fact , some of the big traditional commercial banks were not responsible for the crisis ."
"mr president , the european external action service will be responsible to the high representative ."
"the council , for all its faults , at least contains representatives of member states ."
i apologise for that word .
it is not mine but I see it as a code for the council and the european council .
"furthermore , of course , the high representative is an ex officio vice president of the commission ."
would you agree ?
president of the commission . I do not agree .
we are not there .
but there are other community competences that should not go now to the intergovernmental arm .
"it should be kept , of course , in the community method ."
"so the high representative / vice president of the commission is , as we say , usually double hatted ."
"she will have to put together , using the best of the synergies , those two competences ."
"i can see the internal consistency of what you are saying as a euro integrationalist , which I am not ."
the treaty strikes a balance and that balance has to be respected .
"to produce a shoe in our region , in southern italy , costs eur the cost of the finished product from china is eur 5.a baby grow produced by us costs eur 4 5 , whereas one from china costs eur I know that protectionist measures are undesirable , but what is the answer ?"
so the solution is to promote decent work and upgrading of social standards all over the world .
that will be self defeating for us .
let us be completely clear about it .
that is our priority now .
"that said , there were some measures that were taken specifically for employment ."
that is why it is so much dependent on the correction of some fiscal imbalances .
"in 2009 , 2.7 million people in the euro area lost their jobs ."
"faced with this situation , do you not think that a two pronged strategy ought to be implemented ?"
"all the issues you have raised are dealt with in the 2020 strategy , mr daerden ."
we are also starting to see more consistent signs of stabilisation in some member states .
that is why our priority is now employment .
"for young people , unemployment is particularly worrying , as you said ."
we have more than 20 % of young people unemployed in europe .
that is why we have launched three initiatives for this year .
two of them I have already mentioned .
there is also the youth employment initiative .
"last week , the european climate foundation launched itsroadmap 2050."
we could do it at little more than the cost of business as usual .
but it can only be done at european level .
will the commission embrace this roadmap ?
will it endeavour to give the european union a new élan in proposing the necessary policy measures ?
this objective was also fully translated in the commission's working programme for 2010 and beyond .
i underline the word investment .
"however , most of these initiatives come from the us ."
what is the commission doing to promote digitisation of our cultural heritage on the european continent ?
"in this perspective , I have asked vice president kroes and commissioner vassiliou to set up a comité des sages ."
i look forward to receiving their recommendations on these important issues by the end of this year .
i had a great respect for president kaczyński .
i worked in a very loyal manner with him .
i did everything to be present at his funeral .
i was trying to go to the funeral of president kaczyński until the very last moment .
it was no longer possible for me to go .
we discussed this in the college meeting today .
do you believe that unemployment will fall in europe as a result of these policies ?
president of the commission . we are not forcing anyone to take any measures .
"without growth , we cannot generate employment ."
that is why we should not set macro economic stability and rigour in contradiction or opposition to growth .
our air quality directives provide for significant restrictions in this respect .
it happened and now we have to react to its consequences .
the other 99 % is in the hands of the member states .
do you not think that we should also emphasise the development of micro entities ?
"for this is the best way to encourage self employment , and rates of self employment are still too low today ."
"hence , in this context , these questions would appear to be justified ."
we believe it is impossible to discuss european competitiveness without addressing the issue of education .
we have to discuss afterwards the financial perspective .
this is our intention .
"de yesterday , the media told us that the opel plant in antwerp will close ."
this is just one of many examples of jobs being lost in europe .
"next thursday , the european industrial trade unions will be holding a day of demonstrations throughout europe ."
they are calling for jobs and the future of europe as an industrial base to be safeguarded .
your work programme does not provide very definitive information in this respect .
you have just referred to the guidelines and the europe 2020 position paper .
"in my view , this is not specific enough ."
you should provide examples .
that is the only way to do it .
"fi mr president , commissioner , unemployment and exclusion among young people are a big problem ."
"as you have said , 20 % of young people are unemployed ."
this would therefore require a large amount of labour migration .
"in my opinion , there is something of a contradiction here ."
what is the european strategy on this issue ?
can we not bring about such a strategy ?
our society will always pay a big price for exclusion .
president of the commission . I want to win this competitiveness battle globally .
there is no contradiction between having longer working lives and having some immigration to europe .
this shows that there is a problem of mismatch between the supply and demand for labour .
there is a lot to do in this area .
i believe that pension reforms are also a way of contributing to that .
they have not done so .
"in fact , it has been possible to keep people in work for longer ."
we know the unemployment rate in this social group is currently very high .
how do you assess the programme ?
"what can you offer and propose today , mr barroso , to the young people of europe ?"
"de mr barroso , I have to disagree with you ."
that is not true .
you have simply failed to include this in the strategy and I am wondering why .
why does this not form part of europe 2020 ?
what is the commission intending to do ?
"growth , not only smart growth and equitable growth , but also sustainable growth ."
"in fact , in some member states , there is great potential for this ."
there are some member states where the employment rate for women is still very much lower than for men .
i think it was interesting .
"thank you , colleagues , for being active during the last hour ."
we will also meet next month during question hour with president barroso .
the eu strategy for relations with latin america debate 
"it is clear , however , that a great deal still remains to be done ."
"this summit is not , however , just another summit , mrs ashton ."
"at this one , a very clear issue is going to be at stake ."
i would like to begin by thanking mr salafranca for his excellent report .
our joint efforts are central to developing a consistent policy and a strong presence in the region .
"as the report rightly points out , the partnership has been a success ."
"today , the eu is latin america's second largest trading partner and the biggest investor in the region ."
i am pleased we have taken a number of initiatives since then .
these are important negotiations and dialogues . they strengthen our relationship .
there is also much that we can do in practice on regional integration .
"with regard to the summit , I agree very much that this is an important occasion ."
i am very keen to hear views from members of this house and to respond to any questions .
"all the same , I regret the absence of concrete measures and of a genuine development strategy ."
we have also emphasised observance of the ilo conventions that are flouted in colombia .
the minimum environmental and social standards must be respected .
the aim of the eu latin american partnership is not just to protect commercial profits .
the free trade agreements with peru and colombia are a very poor counterexample .
our duty is to encourage regional integration and to oppose any signed agreement that would weaken such integration .
"we also need to develop the association agreements with mexico and chile , which have been a real success ."
you are aware that the may summit is an excellent opportunity for driving forward relations between the two parties .
the spanish presidency is to be congratulated on the work it has done in this regard .
"i do , however , admit that we have succeeded in some aspects ."
i think that these are major steps forward .
i would like to end with a specific question to mrs ashton 
i will continue in english .
"there is a protest under way in brazil , in which hundreds of civil society organisations are participating ."
there are also legal proceedings under way in brazil .
so this largely democratic region with whom we have much in common must not be forgotten .
"brazil , along with mexico , is now designated as an eu strategic partner ."
bolivia and ecuador have also shown worrying signs of following the disreputable example of chávez and castro's cuba .
"so , we need genuine cooperation and support in that ."
"recently , the stephen roth institute published a report which highlights several somewhat unpleasant aspects of this issue ."
"fr madam president , mr salafranca sánchez neyra's report contains many interesting things ."
it is very comprehensive .
"however , I regret that the report does not tackle two essential issues more directly ."
we believe that we should devote ourselves to those issues that are strictly essential .
"however , I believe that there is a great deal of untapped potential for boosting trade between both regions ."
this is why the european union must provide resources for promoting european products on the latin american market .
"in this regard , some romanian products already have a market outlet in latin america ."
"our national car , the dacia , is one example I can give of this ."
"es madam president , I , too , would like to congratulate mr salafranca sánchez neyra ."
i think that this is a very important report .
"this is going to be extremely important for the european union and , above all , for latin america ."
"however , ladies and gentlemen , we need to help latin america ."
we need to help the latin american people .
we always need to keep this vision in mind .
"in order to work in latin america , we also need to have the support of european enterprises ."
let us join together with them so that we can be stronger .
we have made a great deal of progress since 199we have similar values and human rights and we are also linked by the desire for democracy and peace .
"however , the actual conditions in the two continents are very different ."
"fortunately , we do not have as many problems ."
i believe that this would deepen the partnership even further and really help us to make more progress .
there is nevertheless one exception .
"in march , we discussed here the situation in cuba ."
"however , the region does not deserve this ."
"latin america is a significant partner for the eu , even without the cuban regime ."
"baroness , I would urge you please to answer my following question ."
i would like an answer please .
"however , it is a fact that these principles are often violated ."
"in addition , around 42 million people in latin america are illiterate ."
the european union is both the main investor in latin america and an important trading partner .
there is still work to be done in this area and improvements still need to be made .
"el madam president , I wish to congratulate mr salafranca on his highly integrated and substantiated report ."
i think that this is what we should retain from today's report .
i cannot help but stress the strategic importance of good relations with latin america .
the objective is to dot the final i's and to wrap up the negotiations .
the association agreement is important for central america .
"no , above all , it must improve the situation of ordinary citizens and small businesses ."
"ga madam president , I welcome this report and I commend the rapporteur on his excellent work ."
i would like to draw attention to trade affairs between the european union and latin america .
it must be ensured that trade affairs are discussed on a level playing field .
european farmers and producers must adhere to many rules and they produce high quality food and goods .
it is not just for the benefit of european producers that we should look at this issue .
the european union has done excellent work as regards protecting and strengthening consumer rights and health .
the president cut off the speaker 
"pl madam president , I will try actually to keep to one minute ."
if only everyone really did live in such conditions .
"in bolivia , for example , approximately 60 % of the population live below the poverty line ."
"furthermore , energy and energy supply dialogue should be boosted to combat climate change and to aid sustainable energy consumption ."
we learned this first hand from senator piedad córdoba .
it is part of the dossier that the colombian security services are preparing in her case .
"i think this is serious , very serious , and demands an explanation by the colombian government ."
"however , this is not just about starting negotiations with the mercosur trading bloc ."
"in fact , another eu latin america meeting is scheduled for next may in madrid ."
the forthcoming summit is an important one .
it enables us to reinforce that relationship that honourable members have talked about .
we are the biggest investor in that region .
we are continuing to follow the situation very closely .
we have taken note of the significant progress that has been made .
i also agree about the importance of the role that we play with these countries in broader international questions .
brazil and iran were specific examples given .
the falklands islands were raised .
member states have ratified the un convention on the law of the sea .
the falkland islands is an associated territory to the union and the rule of law would apply .
climate change is also a very important issue .
we should remember that we have a key dialogue with this region .
"to end again , my congratulations go to mr salafranca ."
"mr president , I would like to thank all my fellow members for their speeches ."
"however , we need to move from words to actions , and this is shown in the association agreements ."
"i think , mrs ashton , that you have negotiated the agreements with colombia and peru very well ."
"the colombian people are clamouring for peace , and this agreement is definitely deserved ."
i also sincerely believe that a majority in parliament is in favour of this agreement .
"mrs ashton , we need to give the central americans some room to breathe in the negotiations ."
"we represent 25 % of their exports , and they represent 2 % of ours ."
"we need to be generous and , as you said , we need to re launch the agreement with mercosur ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the first part session in may .
written statements rule 149 
european union member states also provide the largest source of direct investment in latin america .
agenda continuation see minutes
kyrgyzstan debate 
"as this house knows very well , the situation on the ground remains somewhat fluid and tense ."
"however , that is not the end of the crisis , and we have important work to do ."
reports told us yesterday that as many as five people were killed in riots in the suburbs of bishkek .
all sides need to be careful and avoid provocation .
the restoration of law and order must be a priority .
the second issue concerns the legitimacy of the provisional government .
we will be happy to look at such a plan .
what is important for us in this context is that the constitutional process is inclusive and participatory .
the early indications I can tell honourable members are encouraging .
we know from the presidential elections last year that there is considerable room for progress .
"thirdly , it is clear that kyrgyzstan needs material assistance ."
"however , there may be specific medical needs ."
more than 80 persons died and many hundreds were wounded from gunfire opened against demonstrators in bishkek .
these events cannot simply be put on one side .
"finally , as the recent crisis has shown , there is a need for genuine economic and social reforms ."
"whether justifiably or not , this was obviously one of the causes of the clashes ."
"the whole region is of major strategic significance to us , not just the individual countries ."
"if this were to take the form of fundamentalism , the results could be catastrophic for us ."
"mr president , baroness ashton , I would also like to thank you for your statement ."
a dictator or a president who behaves like a dictator is removed from power .
his successor celebrates and is pleased to be able to introduce democracy for his subjects .
we hope that this cycle is not beginning again and that mrs otunbayeva has a different approach .
"her past , and the attitude that she has often demonstrated , are indicators of this ."
"however , indicators are not enough ."
we need real proof .
"unfortunately , the situation that I have described does not apply only to kyrgyzstan ."
similar conditions can also be found in other countries .
"however , the situation in kazakhstan is also far from ideal ."
the same thing also applies to uzbekistan and to other countries .
"this is a very sensitive region , as mr brok has already said ."
"mr morel is doing a good job as the special representative , but this is not enough ."
this is not only about the energy supply from turkmenistan through to kazakhstan .
"we know that in some countries , such as uzbekistan , the situation is very fragile and problematic ."
"unfortunately , that was not the case and now he has suffered the same fate as his predecessor ."
the european union must exert significance influence in this case .
i think that was both sensible and useful .
i hope the council will begin work on this next monday .
my question is how do you intend to tackle this ?
we need to help this region and kyrgyzstan to move towards cooperation and away from confrontation .
i believe that this is important for the future of the entire region and beyond .
the tulip revolution in 2005 once again raised immense hope .
"commissioner , this country is actually of considerable strategic importance , and not only in military terms ."
it must not be the playing field of certain major powers .
its support and its diplomatic presence remain half hearted .
"however , the eu's support is essential to ensure that country's independence ."
"yes , of course , we must support democracy and the defence of human rights ."
this is now a matter of the utmost urgency .
this is the key to ensuring that the country plays a major role in this region of the world .
one such show of support could be an observation mission for the coming elections .
we must provide long term assistance in this area .
"mr president , last week's riots have led kyrgyzstan into a political , judicial and economic crisis ."
its constitutional court was practically disbanded and the interim government's actions appear uncoordinated .
"according to eye witnesses , new local groups trying to take over regional governments have emerged ."
"similarly , ethnic based groupings appear , creating fear of more ethnic violence ."
criminal groups operate freely in the country .
large numbers of weapons are being circulated and robberies are taking place .
"safety , security and the interests of the eu citizens in this country are still endangered ."
the present interim government is unable to counter any of these threats .
the situation is completely unclear for the local people .
it is clear that the eu should pursue an independent investigation into the causes and effects of the riots .
"the army is in the capital , carrying out searches and making arrests as we speak ."
people are living well below the poverty line .
"if the european union wants to play an effective peacekeeping role , it needs to act now ."
ro the situation in kyrgyzstan is giving particular cause for concern .
this country has a strategic position in central asia .
the authorities must take measures aimed at protecting civilian lives .
"just yesterday , new clashes took place among ethnic kyrgyz , russians and turks ."
amnesty international has also called our attention to their plight .
"two reasons can , of course , be given ."
i would like to make a fervent appeal in relation to the situation in kyrgyzstan .
over 80 fatalities is a bad signal for the building of kyrgyzstan .
so I repeat my fervent appeal and have my fingers crossed for mrs ashton's mission .
there is a simple explanation for this situation .
our timeliness in providing aid to reduce and weaken all social tension will be decisive .
"we are not in haiti , but in kyrgyzstan ."
let us at least try to get there in time on this occasion .
now we know that these new states have inherited huge problems from the soviet union .
rumour has it that the snipers who shot into the crowd in bishkek were uzbek and tajik mercenaries .
european foreign policy should help to defuse the situation .
"however , military intervention is the wrong approach , as is clearly shown by the german presence in afghanistan ."
"it is essential to provide intelligent , targeted economic and development aid ."
we must give priority to combating corruption and to depriving the local clans of their power .
it is really only then that democracy will have a genuine chance in central asia .
"with this eu digital library , the diversity and the wealth of our culture will be made accessible ."
it is essential that our different countries be heavily involved in this project .
a crucial aspect of this initiative concerns a fundamental value respect for cultural and linguistic diversity .
"one of our continent's horizons is africa , but we have blackened that horizon with slavery and colonialism ."
we have a duty of recognition and reparation towards its peoples .
we are working very closely with the un and with the osce .
it is very important .
we need to look again very carefully .
those are just some of the elements that I would include .
i think that we are probably right in the level of presence in the region .
pierre morel has been there for several days .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the first part session in may .
written statements rule 149 
the european parliament is following the development of the political crisis in the country with great concern .
the risk of civil war breaking out and of asecond afghanistanmust be averted .
stabilisation of the situation in central asia will guarantee good cooperation with the eu .
no one is in any doubt that kyrgyzstan plays a special role here .
"at present , let us concentrate on ensuring security to civilians and on giving them humanitarian aid ."
"in addition , we should take every possible measure to prevent radicalisation of the country ."
we must not allow civil war to break out .
"in the long term perspective , it is essential to develop a new strategy for the entire region ."
"in particular , we should send a team of observers to the next elections ."
we must know what the plans of the interim government there are .
eu canada summit debate 
it is on that basis that we cooperate to protect our common interests .
so it is an important relationship .
"we need to nurture and invest in it , so that we realise its full potential ."
that is the purpose of the next eu canada summit which will take place in brussels on 5 may .
the timing is fortunate .
we will also have the chance to discuss eu canada bilateral relations and how we work together on regional crises .
"our aim is to have a focused , business like summit ."
"with our bilateral relations , the summit will deal with efforts to upgrade and modernise the eu canada relationship ."
the summit should also address the subject of reciprocal visa free travel .
our goal is clear we want visa free travel to canada for all eu citizens as soon as possible .
haiti will also be on the agenda of the summit for obvious reasons .
the summit will cover climate change .
the consequence of climate change for the arctic will be another important element of our discussions at the summit .
nowhere are the effects of climate change more keenly felt than in the arctic region .
this is still in force but outdated .
"in a world of big challenges and where change is constant , we need partners ."
canada is among the most important the european union has .
we aim for a productive summit with clear results .
"as you know , the vote has unfortunately been postponed until the beginning of may ."
"since 1959 , canada has been one of the closest and the oldest partners of the european union ."
"in 2010 , canada holds the g8 presidency and will host the next g20 summit ."
thank you for your commitment and your attention .
there are also sensitive issues which will be touched on at the summit .
guaranteeing reciprocity in bilateral relations is one of the european union's basic principles .
"despite this , we are faced with a number of serious challenges ."
"i am sure that we can overcome them , because we have such a close friendship and partnership ."
i am thinking about five points in particular .
"firstly , we must do the job of regulating the financial sector properly ."
my second point has already been mentioned .
we have very similar objectives with regard to climate policy .
we hope to be able to agree on joint standards for reductions .
"one of these concerns visa free travel , which you , baroness ashton , have already referred to ."
my last point relates to the passenger data agreement which expired in the autumn of last year .
"it is de facto still in force , but no longer has a basis in law ."
"we need a new legal basis , so that we can produce a new agreement ."
this new legal basis must ensure that civil rights are respected .
"mr president , baroness ashton , canada is a good friend and an important partner of the eu ."
there is no mention of protecting the arctic using targets and standards .
this is not all about provoking canada .
no mention is made of the fact that canada did not play a particularly positive role in copenhagen .
such a development would be ominous for canadian workerspay and conditions .
"now , canadian water is a particular target of the water multinationals ."
"happily , ordinary people in canada are prepared to fight to protect their public water provision ."
they will need to be vigilant .
is the eu apparatus too cumbersome and bureaucratic to deal with this task ?
"similarly , canada wants the right to tax shipping through an ice free northwest passage ."
"a route north of america must be freely available to all , however ."
"the northwest passage is an ideal way to save time , money and fuel and benefit the environment ."
it improves the competitiveness of all the countries of the northern hemisphere .
"it seems that the ceta refers to significant privatisation , deregulation and restructuring ."
this involves local authorities being prevented from applying specific local or ethnic procurement guidelines .
"one year on , we are obliged to note that we are far from achieving this objective ."
"i think that we have here , first and foremost , a problem of reciprocity ."
that is the case with the free trade agreement which is being negotiated with canada .
the second point that I would like to make is as follows .
i believe that a discussion and an agreement of this kind should include the issue of the seal cull .
more than half of this number 22 million are romanians .
european citizensfreedom of movement must be treated on a uniform basis .
the visa issue affects the relationship between the european union and canada .
president barroso called at the previous summits for a resolution of this matter .
this issue must continue to be raised .
i do not understand why canada takes different approaches .
i also believe that the czech republic must benefit again from the visa waiver .
the reason given for reintroducing visas must not become a factor for the other states .
the topic of visas has been entered on the agenda for the eu canada summit by the european parliament .
i wish you every success in this endeavour .
"however , our cooperation must always be based on common values and mutual respect ."
"instead of reducing emissions by 6 % compared with 1990 , emissions in canada have risen by 26 % ."
the production of tar sand is the main cause .
"this production is also destroying the boreal forest , one of the biggest carbon sinks on the planet ."
"by 2020 , tar sand will probably have produced more emissions than austria and ireland ."
it is high time that all possible steps were taken to achieve a breakthrough in this long drawn out affair .
"the pressure on canada should not be relieved , but , on the contrary , should rather be increased ."
i firmly believe that we must stop dragging our feet .
"czech citizens do not expect fine promises and sympathetic noises from eu bodies , but concrete , goal orientated actions ."
our talk of european solidarity will then be so much hot air to them .
we should make increasing use of this common foundation to take joint responsibility for restructuring basic global conditions .
two important subjects have been raised in this discussion .
the one sided visa rules for czech citizens are unacceptable and should be abolished .
this is the principle of solidarity .
"time moves on , and it is decidedly not working in favour of the eu and its citizens ."
"in this context , they are therefore expecting real help from the eu ."
"we ended up coming out looking incoherent , disorganised and weak ."
the environment commissioner has said that this must never happen again .
he is determined to make a change .
i am in favour of a specific ban on recording with video cameras in cinemas .
this should be enforced in canada .
"however , it is important for us to find a middle way ."
"we should support the protection of intellectual property , but oppose blanket surveillance and persecution on the internet ."
"this is a very difficult problem to solve , but I hope that we can find an effective solution ."
these companies employ two thirds of all workers and generate 80 % of tax income .
the first agreement is enforced provisionally until its entry into force after its ratification .
the council has not yet received any notification in this regard .
the second agreement is not enforced provisionally .
"mr president , canada is a close ally , but the eu must be a critical friend where necessary ."
canada's record on climate change is poor and canada was obstructive during the copenhagen negotiations .
"of particular concern is the tar sands industry , as mr arsenis mentioned ."
i would like just to pick up on two or three of the key areas that were discussed .
the frustration of those honourable members from the countries particularly affected by the visa question is therefore completely understandable .
"let me begin with trade , because quite a lot of the different contributions focused on that ."
we are right to go for an ambitious trade agreement .
"however , we should be very ambitious on both sides ."
there is a very clear and key role for parliament there .
all I would add to that are two things .
one is that a good trade agreement actually benefits our citizens .
that is what it is for .
we need to ensure that all our trade agreements provide genuine opportunities across the european union .
there is a lot of work going on to try and resolve this matter .
honourable members were quite right to raise this question and it will be part of the discussions .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the first part session in may .
written statements rule 149 
"more than half of this number , 22 million , are romanians ."
"roughly 200 000 romanians live in canada , some of whom have entered there through official canadian immigration schemes ."
this is one of the reasons for a large number of visa applications .
the topic of visas was entered on the agenda for the eu canada summit by the european parliament .
question time commission 
τhe next item is question time b7 0207 / 2010 / rev. 1 .
the following questions are addressed to the commission .
part one 
subject creation of a european credit rating authority
that is the stage we are at .
"the effects of such an idea must be carefully evaluated , particularly in terms of responsibility ."
"however , I am not ruling out this idea that you support of creating a european agency ."
"we will , therefore , make this amendment ."
"our task , therefore , is to ensure integration , and that is what we are committed to doing ."
"now , as regards your country , which has suffered this shock , we must be very vigilant ."
i am not going to jump to conclusions about what happened .
why ?
"de mr president , thank you for the excellent report ."
"ultimately , it is important for an organisation of this kind to have teeth ."
"this agency , if I have understood his idea properly , should be public ."
i have not taken up a position on this subject .
this is the stage we are at .
"as regards this new agency that mr papastamkos so very much wants , I am not ruling it out ."
"it is an idea that I find interesting , but it must be carefully evaluated ."
there would also be the question of the public authorities interfering in the work of such an agency .
these issues would arise if we moved towards the creation of a new european public agency .
"the rule is that , if the author is absent , the question lapses ."
"however , there will be no related debate in plenary ."
part two 
subject consumer choice and smart phone technology
"the increasing popularity of smart phones has created a new market in terms of technology , software and applications ."
"it would appear that , under these circumstances , consumer choice is limited ."
vice president of the commission . the commission is closely monitoring the developments regarding smart phones and related markets .
"as the honourable member recognises in his question , in some instances , new markets are being created ."
"open platforms serve that purpose , allowing the creation of competitive markets on top of software systems ."
can I thank the commissioner for the reply .
some applications have been refused by operators and software manufacturers due to their political content .
do you think it is necessary for the national regulatory bodies to take action in this case ?
de I welcome the fact that the commission is dealing with this subject from a competition perspective .
are there any users of smart phones who have already attempted to take legal proceedings against their service providers ?
we did this in the past and we can do it again in the future .
subject activity of credit rating agencies
what measures does it intend to take on theactivityof credit rating agencies ?
the commission is closely monitoring developments in the greek banking sector .
the commission takes its responsibility to ensure macro financial stability in the euro area and the eu as a whole .
"el mr president , I thank the commissioner for his reply ."
"obviously , there are problems with the banks in greece ."
this is a sad role .
"a debate was held earlier , and I have no wish to recycle it ."
"right now , can the european union and the institutions stop taking account of these agenciesratings ?"
"there is something else , of course , and that is the activity of the credit rating agencies ."
it sounds extremely interesting .
i would like to hear more about it .
"el mr president , commissioner , thank you very much for your reply ."
i am trying to reach a conclusion .
will we adopt await and seeapproach ?
"then you can , of course , discuss it with him directly ."
subject eu broadband strategy
"the council of march 2009 fixed an indicative target of achieving 100 % coverage by 20100 % is 100 % , so whoever you are thinking of should be covered by the 100 % ."
"but apparently , in some cases , this is considered to infringe state aid criteria ."
but I am quite positive about ireland and their investment level .
it was a bit under 50 % .
"but , sometimes , I count my blessings and also my past experience ."
"in my former portfolio , I had the privilege to review state aid rules ."
"one of those reviewed state aid rules was connected with , for example , broadband ."
"i know what 100 megabytes are , but what can I imagine ?"
"so broadband measures and what concerns us in this debate is really scheduled to take place earlier than 20subject great britain , sweden and the euro"
"the commission would support their preparations fully , including preparations for the actual cash changeover ."
sweden does not have an opt out clause .
"for the time being , sweden does not fulfil all the criteria for introducing the euro ."
"de mr de gucht , I just have two supplementary points to make ."
"firstly , will the commission attempt to encourage sweden to fulfil its obligations ?"
sweden has an obligation under the treaties and this cannot just be interpreted arbitrarily .
"secondly , what is happening about estonia ?"
"do you think that estonia will become a member in the foreseeable future , perhaps even this year ?"
"member of the commission . as I rightly mentioned , sweden does not fulfil certain criteria ."
"it seems to me that these are , let us say , criteria which are possible to fulfil ."
they are not economic criteria with respect to debt or with respect to deficits .
subject extending cuts to the private sector
the immediate impact of this cyclicity is a reduction in state revenue .
"this has generated competitiveness losses , reflected in persistent current account deficits and a fall in export market shares ."
private final consumption expenditure per capita increased by more than 80 % over the last decade .
the commission is aware that fiscal austerity measures and wage moderation may have a negative short term impact on demand .
greece has adopted an ambitious programme to correct its deficit and to reform its public administration and the economy .
"at the most productive ages , from 25 34 , unemployment is 14.6 % ."
he said that mr rehn's representative suggested that cuts should be made in the private sector in greece .
"unfortunately , this is the result of policies that have been conducted over a certain period of time ."
subject conflict of responsibilities of member states and the eu in connection with imf agreement s 
"hungary recently went through a very difficult financial crisis , as a result of its economic policy ."
can such an agreement be legal ?
"under the principle of subsidiarity , member states are responsible for the design and implementation of social policy measures ."
thank you for the answer .
"on behalf of mr kósa , I would like to add a remark ."
i would ask for your opinion on this .
it was not money that was put at the disposal of the member states .
you will find the eur 100 billion on the debit side of their national budgets .
"wherever the international monetary fund has been , it has one might say sown destruction ."
subject budget deficit in cyprus
"the economic crisis has hit the entire world , including the countries in the eurozone ."
does the commission have any information on the budget deficit and other indicators of the cypriot economy ?
are developments in the cypriot economy and its indicators a cause for concern ?
"i am replacing mr rehn , and normally question time stops at 8 o'clock ."
i have other engagements so I cannot stay .
that is a real problem for me .
i have no time and cannot stay .
"if you have no time , walk out that door now ."
"i am a member of parliament , I have a question down for answer here ."
i have a lot of engagements as well .
i should have the courtesy of a reply in this house .
i think it is very arrogant of you to say you have no time .
member of the commission . it is up to the president to decide on this .
you have to say that to the president .
i respect the authority of the president in parliament .
it is not up to me .
you are right to point out the problem .
"you are replacing commissioner rehn , which is unfortunate , of course , given the importance of the questions ."
"nevertheless , question time is scheduled until 8.30 on our agenda ."
"the crisis took a heavy toll on the global economy , including the eu and the euro area countries ."
"as such , it unavoidably affected cyprus , a very small , open economy ."
this is the first time economic activity in cyprus recorded a negative growth rate over the last 35 years .
"currently , the commission is in the process of preparing such a report for cyprus ."
"in the meantime , the cypriot government has also sent its updated stability programme ."
the programme spells out the medium term budgetary strategy until 20subject greece and the current crisis in euro cooperation
greece is revealing the other side of euro cooperation at the moment .
"in the good old days , the impression was that everything in the eu was peachy ."
"however , as soon as the consequences of the financial crisis hit europe , the situation deteriorated drastically ."
"generally speaking , fluctuating exchange rates are not a good thing ."
"they are of no benefit to anyone , nor do they resolve fundamental , structural problems ."
"however , we are obliged to acknowledge that money , like everything else , has a price ."
adjustment in the euro area has not been sufficiently smooth in the past .
member of the commission . certainly not .
there is only the common currency .
there is no longer such a thing as a greek currency .
the greeks have the euro as their currency .
it is a member because they did everything really everything to get in .
subject european monetary fund
what is the status of this proposal ?
how could such a fund operate in practical terms ?
"however , no new body is needed to provide it or to define and monitor conditionality ."
consistency with the stability oriented governance framework of the emu needs to be ensured .
the commission is considering the scope of proposals to this effect .
"first of all , can I apologise to the commissioner ."
i realise that the commissioner has other appointments and is substituting for a colleague .
"could I ask the commissioner , in relation to his reply , what would constitute the medium term ?"
are we talking half way through the lifetime of this commission ?
"are we talking a year , 18 months ?"
what sort of period does he see for some more definitive response in this issue to materialise ?
subject financial monitoring procedures for the member states
does it intend to table proposals to strengthen economic convergence in the eurozone ?
the commission intends to make full use of the new treaty instruments to achieve stronger policy coordination and governance .
the commitment to consolidation needs to become stronger in good times .
underlying vulnerabilities of public finances should be taken properly into account when designing the optimal consolidation part .
competitiveness divergences are a cause of serious concern for the functioning of the european monetary union .
the ad hoc mechanism for possible financial assistance for greece serves the immediate need .
"however , it is necessary to set up a permanent crisis resolution mechanism with strong built in disincentives for activation ."
the commission will ensure the efficient articulation between the two frameworks .
"international crises , the greek crisis , have brought all the weaknesses in the euro area to the surface ."
you could also interpret that I tried to answer all the questions within the timeframe of 20.there is a very big imbalance with respect to competitiveness .
"regarding whether it is better to have closer monitoring , the answer is yes ."
that is why we are proposing a new scheme for that .
"all I can tell you is that olli rehn owes you a big one , apparently !"
establishment of a european asylum support office debate 
"so , what did we achieve ?"
it is well known that the system is not delivered in a consistent way across member states .
and those who suffer at the end of the day are those in need of protection .
specific tasks are already being assigned to it via other legislation .
so we are pleased to have been able to breathe a little more life into this body .
it is a european institution we are creating .
"we must establish a system which is fair and efficient , based on common standards and common principles ."
the support office will therefore be a cornerstone in the building of a common asylum system .
"the support office will , as you all know , be located in valletta ."
"however , we have not yet taken it a step further ."
this body will allow us to ensure the consistency that is lacking in current practice .
"however , we must recognise that this matter leaves a slightly bitter taste in the mouth ."
"in practical terms , this voluntary solidarity is empty talk ."
the creation of this office perfectly illustrates the need to put in place a common european asylum system .
"nevertheless , europe has a huge responsibility where asylum is concerned ."
"nevertheless , the reality of european policies and those of its member states in this area raises questions ."
we all know that it does nothing of the sort .
"our debates will prove it , if necessary , when they take place on thursday afternoon ."
"since 2004 , in particular , we have been seeing the downwards harmonisation of reception procedures and conditions ."
"once again , the prize for the biggest reduction in the number of asylum applications goes to france ."
"as a human rights activist in france , I am well placed to know what has caused these results ."
the proposal that we are examining today therefore seems to be a breath of fresh air .
it helps improve the implementation of a european system on the right to asylum .
the majority of the proposals made by parliament at first reading have been adopted by the council .
"we know that we owe this result mainly to the swedish presidency , and we are grateful to it ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I have heard it suggested that this measure relies on solidarity ."
"in my humble opinion , something else is lacking and that something is security ."
would it not be a good idea to look at this question from a security angle as well ?
what is preventing it ?
"what we need in order to deal with this situation is money , resources , and real support ."
"it has been said that in sweden , things are going very well ."
establishing this agency is another step towards centralising eu asylum policy .
it does not work in practice and circular migration often turns into permanent migration .
"there are , of course , other criticisms that can be made ."
the new asylum support office is therefore not fit for purpose and should not be established .
any common european asylum policy threatens british sovereignty over border control .
the commission does not offer help and support when the uk is struggling .
where is the money to help the british taxpayer afford all this ?
"time and again , this commission has shown only disregard for the wants and needs of the uk people ."
is it the commission's intention to repeal the uk opt out in this area too ?
the people back home deserve your honesty because this issue is extremely important to them .
you are supposed to represent them and they deserve to know what you have planned .
that is the decision of the uk people .
it is not just another agency .
"it would gather information , it would put up a portal , it would have experts , etc ."
"as some of you have said , this is part of developing a common asylum system in europe ."
asylum obligations are clearly set out under international conventions which all member states have individually signed up to .
"that is not the same as an immigration policy , and people really should recognise the difference ."
i am going to close the debate .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the part session in the first week of may
written statements rule 149 
i am confident that this will bring member statespositions closer together with regard to asylum related policies .
"this matter is an absolute necessity , given that some member states are facing large influxes of asylum seekers ."
"mrs krehl , who is replacing mr kirilov , has the floor ."
"mr president , I am very sorry that mr kirilov cannot present the report himself ."
"therefore , I would like to read out his notes ."
"they are in english , which is very surprising for a bulgarian member ."
"however , it is a good thing that I do not have to speak bulgarian ."
they are a logical continuation of the documents which we adopted last year .
i am happy that parliament's main recommendations for further simplification have been taken on board .
this also means improved implementation and correct spending on eu money .
here is just one example .
the second group of amendments concern financial management rules .
advance payments for countries worst hit by the crisis will be increased for 20both groups of measures are important because of their message to the beneficiaries and because of their practical utility .
anti crisis measures are a clear demonstration of solidarity .
they will bring fresh money for the member states to get out of the crisis .
"all measures will commit realisation of more projects , especially now ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mrs krehl , thank you very much for your report ."
i would also like to ask you to pass on my thanks to mr kirilov .
what is the aim of these amendments ?
the common overall objective of this initiative is to accelerate the implementation of the programmes .
"we must be self critical and take a look at the rules which , in some places , are complex ."
"in addition , we want to help to overcome the crisis ."
what can be done ?
i would like to thank everyone and I am looking forward to the discussion .
i would also like to thank mrs krehl for the presentation she has given us .
"in the current financial , economic and social crisis , pressure on national financial resources has been growing ."
"smes are the motor of the european economy and producers of sustainable growth , creating numerous quality jobs ."
it is therefore time to change its image through an in depth simplification of the rules on its application .
the eur 350 billion of european funds are for the benefit of our fellow european citizens .
we urgently need to speed up the implementation of these programmes .
"as we have said , both flexibility and solidarity are required ."
we must provide rapid and targeted help .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mr hahn , let us speak plainly ."
"therefore , we are against raising the evaluation threshold ."
we believe that it is not possible to justify this to european taxpayers .
"if our amendments are not accepted , we cannot vote in favour of the report ."
the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149 8 
"nl mr president , I have a question for mrs schroedter ."
"in her analysis , she has chosen to take a rather negative approach ."
why is she painting such a negative picture today ?
there is no reason for bringing all that negativity to this proposal today .
"de mr president , I will be happy to answer the question ."
investment in large projects is being simplified .
"the compromise proposal does not , therefore , involve any radical intervention in the architecture of the european funds ."
sweeping changes are not even possible at the moment .
we can only manage a gradual modernisation of the existing system .
the proposal is a compromise .
"in this context , it is therefore vital to clarify all of the technical details of this legislation ."
"however , a compromise has been found and the debate should therefore be concluded ."
"in this context , we still have much work to do in our regions ."
the first is that we very much welcome the simplification of the structural funds .
we welcome the simplification and are also of the opinion that the regulation must be implemented urgently .
too much time has already been wasted .
"however , I must speak openly ."
the compromise is not exactly how we had envisaged it .
"in addition , unemployment also plays a major role independently of the crisis ."
these member states will benefit from this and from additional advance payments from the cohesion and european structural funds .
"all of this is good , but we would like to see more being done ."
you know what our position is from what we have said in the committee .
the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149 8 
there was an opportunity to table amendments so that the commission's original draft could be reused .
i assume that my colleague thought the same thing .
"when I looked at the commission's overall initiative , I was thrilled ."
i would have liked to see more .
"it is true that we could have submitted an amendment , you are right ."
i must take note of that myself .
"nl mr president , exceptional times call for exceptional measures ."
"today , this house's long cherished dream of a simplified procedure and more rapid results has come true ."
there is one point which parliament opposed and that was the proposal to scrap cofinancing .
"that does not mean money leaving the region oh no , it means money being spent ."
that is the scheme we have operated for 200i have a question for mr hahn does he not want to follow this good example with another ?
why can we not repeat this scheme in 2008 and 2009 ?
that would be a very positive step .
can you answer that ?
"to conclude , we could also show some solidarity ."
why have they not shown any solidarity and transferred those resources to other countries ?
that is entirely permissible and would allow those countries to get back on their feet .
"that would be showing real solidarity , but unfortunately it has not happened ."
"i therefore feel reasonably positive , at least towards the rapporteur ."
"over the years , the cohesion policy has played a significant role in developing and revitalising the irish economy ."
these monies have primarily been used to help combat youth and long term unemployment .
the overall budget of this programme is eur 1.36 billion .
we live in the age of globalisation .
"however , this report is fairly limited and does not seem to address many of them ."
"already , much of european money is not properly accounted for in spending projects due to improper oversight procedures ."
we need to ensure that relaxing the cofinance criteria does not reduce accountability .
"bg commissioner , I first of all want to congratulate mr kirilov on his report ."
i welcome and support any step which guarantees and facilitates the lawful use of european solidarity funds .
i want to emphasise the significance of the change concerning deferred expenditure of the resources envisaged for 200we will indeed use them very properly .
this debate is also very important in order to confirm that the cohesion policy is needed .
i am pleased that mr hahn and mr cioloş are here .
"therefore , cohesion policy should not be weakened , but strengthened instead ."
i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on the job he has done .
the eruption of a volcano has turned the world upside down in five days and may trigger another crisis .
how long will it take us to have the capability to respond ?
applause 
"sk I would like to begin by applauding the work of the rapporteur , mr kirilov ."
"in slovakia , we have a saying that help given quickly is twice as effective ."
the commission presented the first draft as long ago as july last year .
we will not decide until may .
the whole legislative process has taken nine months up to today .
"perhaps it is time to start thinking about a simpler and shorter legislative process in concrete , specified cases ."
the commission's initial proposal dates from june 200that is unacceptable .
"however , I would like to express my disappointment once again ."
we need a european union that can take swift decisions that have a real impact on the ground .
now let us turn to the future for a moment .
one less excuse for whom ?
the president cut off the speaker 
"ro the effects of the economic crisis have been felt since 200the main problems we are currently facing are unemployment , a decline in living standards and poverty ."
mr kirilov's report is a good example of this .
"i am very glad about this , and this is how I understand the amendments to the regulation ."
"this is why I understand the regulation as the next step , to simplify implementation ."
i am pleased about this .
i would also like to say that this effort must be continuous .
"de mr president , mr hahn , cohesion policy is an important political tool ."
cohesion policy also forms a very important part of the europe 2020 strategy .
the president cut off the speaker 
the kirilov report is a first step towards this simplification .
"in these dark and overcast times , the kirilov report may be a breath of fresh air ."
i hope that this report will be only a first step .
the czech member referred to the saying that help given quickly is twice as effective .
i would say that this is a european insight .
"despite all the difficulties and mistakes , we have adhered to this principle in the initiative ."
there are also control mechanisms at local and national level .
this is the concept behind shared management .
"these also involve certain deadlines which we , as regional politicians , cannot simply ignore ."
"instead , they must be committed to using the funds that are available ."
we will be providing the available regional funds to wales and to all the other regions in future .
thank you once again for your broad support .
i would like to highlight two points once again .
that is the aim of this report .
"i would like to make a second remark to mrs swinburne , but not just to her ."
this is not about handing out charity to poor regions .
this will strengthen the internal market .
"in other words , it is not simply an act of general solidarity ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the part session in the first week of may
written statements rule 149 
"a number of member states , including romania , have had a low uptake of european funds to date ."
drafting this report demonstrates the european parliament's desire to resolve the problems highlighted in this regard .
i support the proposals aimed at simplifying the procedures for accessing european funds .
"i welcome these measures , especially at the moment when member states are being affected by the economic crisis ."
implementing a new procedure for making advance payments will enable more projects to be completed more quickly .
the economic crisis has demonstrated the need for public action to support private activities that are in difficulty .
the european union's cohesion policy plays an essential role in this regard .
"nonetheless , accessing european funding remains difficult for a number of potential beneficiaries ."
i welcome this pragmatic approach .
"the commission must not stop there , however ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I wish to congratulate the rapporteur for the work he has done ."
i also welcome the agreement being finally approved within the council and committee on regional development .
"we need measures to facilitate a rapid recovery , especially now during an economic crisis ."
it is high time for this next step now before new unattributed documents surface .
specific measures for agricultural markets debate 
the issue with which we are concerned results from the general crisis being experienced by the entire agricultural sector .
"nobody complains when prices are rising , especially not farmers ."
we need to stabilise prices .
"firstly , you have announced a number of dairy related measures to be implemented before the end of the year ."
this is important .
can you give us some details of these ?
"secondly , there are specific measures that need to be taken on all the markets , not just dairy ."
"what market regulation mechanism can be used to limit sudden increases and , above all , sudden price falls ?"
what work is the commission currently doing and how does it view this issue ?
"therefore , this is a situation that we have seldom encountered on the european market ."
this crisis has affected the dairy sector in particular .
"it released significant funds , more than eur 400 million , to finance these interventions in the markets ."
"this decision , then , was taken last year ."
"the member states were simply obliged to inform , to notify the commission of which criteria they had chosen ."
the member states have until june to distribute these funds .
"i think that the current situation shows us that this intervention has been successful , because prices have stabilised ."
"secondly , there are support measures that will be reaching producers soon ."
"those , then , are the measures that have already been taken ."
this group will present its findings in june .
the commission pays close attention to the development of the markets in other sectors .
thank you very much .
the decision to increase the links between european agriculture and the world market is also correct .
the initial success of this policy was very obvious until 2007 or early 200european agricultural policy offered better value for money .
"there were hardly any market interventions and farmers had stable , rising incomes ."
these instruments should only be used in exceptional circumstances and not for constant market interventions .
"however , when we need the instruments , they must be ready for use ."
we also need to identify measures for the farming profession which will create equality on the market .
"these include , in particular , strengthening the legal position of producer groups ."
"the amendment was rejected by almost 250 votes to 3you said that in the future , we would consider a regulation ."
"i would like reassurance , then , that they will not be forgotten in the discussion ."
we need to give them answers now .
we are in agreement on this .
"the protests could very quickly move back to brussels , so we have to provide some answers ."
"in the dairy sector , a fundamental change in policy is needed ."
markets do not function without assistance .
that is the answer to the financial crisis and also to the crisis in agriculture .
we must provide rules .
we are currently faced by a crazy process of concentration in agriculture .
"on the other hand , many small farms in disadvantaged regions are having to close ."
we need a clear legal position for farmers .
they are the weakest link in the business chain .
"they are the first to be hit by dumping prices , which are becoming increasingly common in many areas ."
we agree that we urgently need a clear policy statement about how we can regulate markets better in future .
we need to look outside europe's boundaries to see how other regions are resolving this problem .
no one will tell us how and when to regulate our markets .
"in recent years , we have taken things too far with the removal of many of the market regulations ."
it is clear that canada has what many farmers and many consumers believe is a tried and tested model .
we should not exclude this from the discussion right at the outset .
"instead , we should also provide some answers ."
we must not regard export subsidies and interventions as the normal rules for influencing the market in future .
we must finally put an end to this process .
the imminent reform of the cap gives us a real opportunity to address these issues .
"of course , it is important not to undermine the competitiveness of europe's agri food industry ."
there has been a significant drop in the prices of basic agricultural products .
"in my opinion , the cap , following the reforms and the uncoupling of aid , is sufficiently market oriented ."
it produces public goods and it needs public european financial support .
"guaranteeing producersincomes depends , above all , on safeguarding transparency in the food supply chain ."
"to close , we cannot confine ourselves to designing future market tools for after 20 hu the debate so far has shown that this is a very complex problem ."
there are four theoretical options .
"the second option , proposed by the french government on the american model , is counter cyclical regulation ."
the third is the stock market option .
the french presidency also raised the possibility of creating a european union price monitoring system .
"unfortunately , in the case of grain , this would require extremely large sums ."
the characteristics of supply of agricultural goods and the demand for foodstuffs make agricultural markets unstable .
"above all , agriculture is the basis of an abundant , varied and healthy food supply ."
"can we be satisfied , then , with the current economic situation of our rural areas and our farmers ?"
the administrative centre holds 2 500 agricultural accounts .
"less aid , less public intervention and more restrictions on production that is a truly explosive combination ."
it is true that the general economic crisis is aggravating the situation .
agriculture remains a bargaining chip in trade agreements .
"despite the situation in europe , meat , certain cereals , fruits and vegetables are all affected ."
we cannot continue with such a policy .
"it mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I come from southern italy ."
"this year , olive producers have been paid eur 30 per hundred kilograms ."
there is clearly a need to introduce more controls .
"today , those who leave their farm to their children risk leaving them with a handful of debts ."
europe must provide an energetic and strong response to help and aid the revival of our agricultural sector .
"on this matter , we in this chamber seem to be of the same opinion ."
the analysis involved the evaluation of 19 100 sets of accounts from full time and part time farms .
"in the financial year 2008 2009 , the overall situation deteriorated significantly ."
"that represents a reduction of 24 % . particularly large losses occurred in 2008 200in contrast , mixed livestock farms ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"there are other objectives of course , but those are the fundamental ones that we must take into account ."
i can assure you that we are currently working on this .
"the market must be able to function , of course ."
it is in this spirit that we will be making proposals for the cap post 20i fully understand that sectors other than dairy are also experiencing difficulties at this time .
this sector underwent reform a few years ago .
we are in agreement on that .
i think that I have more or less covered all the speeches and all the problems that were raised .
i would like to thank you once again for the opportunity that you have given me to explain myself .
the debate is only just beginning .
i also launched a public debate before making proposals on the cap post 2013 reform .
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
"it must also have appropriate regulation , a strong safety net and sensible risk management ."
"to conclude , it is essential to ensure equality of treatment for imported agricultural materials and produce ."
the effect on prices during the recent dairy crisis is just one example .
"stock intervention had its role to play in stabilising the market , as did the emergency dairy fund ."
"but we are not out of the woods yet , so to speak ."
supermarkets present their hurdles when it comes to a fair deal for farmers .
this has to change .
i hope the commission is as concerned about this as members of parliament are .
"in 2009 , european farmers experienced significant difficulties ."
the most difficult situation was definitely that facing the dairy market .
"as a result of a worldwide price collapse , european milk producers suffered huge losses ."
"currently , price fluctuations are no longer so large , but this does not mean the problems have disappeared ."
we are still faced with low demand and price fluctuations in many sectors of agriculture .
the present mechanisms of intervention in the dairy sector and the establishment of the dairy fund are proving insufficient .
we can already imagine what will happen when these instruments expire .
we can certainly expect further falls in income and market turbulence .
i hope that body will fulfil our expectations and present a balanced programme of stabilising measures .
i am pleased that mr cioloş shares our fears and has taken account of our suggestions .
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
"the next sitting will take place tomorrow , 21 april ."
the debates will be held from 09.00 to 13.00 and from 15.00 to 19.00 .
"i do not know if everyone is aware that tomorrow , the sitting will be closed at 19.00 ."
the sitting was closed at 23.25 
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 09.05 
request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity see minutes
2008 discharge debate 
the next item is the joint debate on the following 
"fr mr president , I note that the court of auditors is absent from this house ."
we need the position of the court of auditors to make matters clearer for us .
do we have an explanation for this absence ?
do we also have an explanation for the council's absence ?
"colleagues , it is not necessary for the council to be here ."
"they are not here and we are very surprised , as it is certainly not a problem of transport ."
it is not so far from luxembourg and they can travel by car without any problem .
"nevertheless we should start our discussion , not knowing yet why they have not arrived ."
we will start the discussion without them .
we know that the votes are postponed and will be held in two weekstime in brussels .
we have already decided about that .
"therefore , I object to the council's absence today ."
"ladies and gentlemen , we can , in any case , begin the discussion ."
what is important is that we can start our work .
"mr president , I would like to mention that we should not only be blaming the council ."
the secretary general of parliament is missing .
i am sure the secretary general will be here there is no doubt about that .
i know many of the honourable members of this house from the committee .
we also know our respective positions .
"it is fine that we will exchange them once again this morning , but it is not really helpful ."
"discharge to the european institutions comes at a difficult , but important moment ."
this opens a multitude of new perspectives .
"here , we need to continue combating sources of errors decisively through simpler rules and recovering funds wrongly paid ."
"finally , to external policy actions ."
we need a demonstration of the determination of the eu to contribute to the resolution of problems worldwide .
"these actions must be highly effective , even under the most difficult circumstances ."
"we are , however , making some progress ."
i thank you and look forward to your comments .
"in addition , this is a crucial time in institutional terms ."
"consequently , we need to focus the tenth edf on a limited number of sectors ."
resources are another of the important items .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I have been asking myself what discharge really is ."
i was responsible for carrying out this exercise in respect of the european parliament for the 2008 financial year .
"after all , ladies and gentlemen , citizens have the right to know what is happening to their taxes ."
a great deal of money is involved .
this is an extremely large amount of money .
"the procedure is important , as is the work of the committee on budgetary control ."
"this is all good news , ladies and gentlemen ."
"thanks to our critical stance , we have managed to reduce electricity consumption by 25 % over three years ."
we have managed to use 100 % green electricity .
my report also introduces a new concept that ofreputational damageto parliament .
the appointment of a risk manager within the administration on 24 february is to be warmly welcomed .
"a critical approach is essential , as I have said ."
"nevertheless , my report is critical ."
i wanted to show that we can do even better .
i have discussed a number of concerns .
"ladies and gentlemen , I should like to conclude with a few words about the production of my report ."
"i strove for positive cooperation with my shadow rapporteurs , and some very constructive amendments have been tabled ."
let us say frankly that the situation is least transparent with the finances of the council .
"moreover , cooperation with the council on the matter of budget discharge leaves a great deal to be desired ."
the situation is analogous to the one from last year .
we are pleased to note the opening of the internal audit unit .
we encourage both institutions to communicate the progress made as regards harmonising their internal control standards .
we do not have any serious reservations concerning the committee of the regions or the european ombudsman .
we note that the european ombudsman has greatly increased its number of posts .
"to sum up , there is only a problem with the council ."
there are no problems with the other six institutions .
we must keep to the allotted time .
i have some information .
the court of auditors was not present during our discussions and neither was the council .
the court of auditors and the council were not present during our discussions .
we checked for the last two years and the court of auditors was not present .
"if we want to organise it for the next time , they could maybe be present next year ."
they will certainly be present in october and november when they will present their report .
"mr president , thank you very much for your careful presentation of the facts concerning previous years ."
it is not only a formality but a very important moment .
"however , I think that we have agreed that we will continue the debate and we will go on ."
"i know this because I came from azerbaijan , through baku and madrid and then by road ."
i am very aware that today is not the right day to pursue this .
that is what I would suggest .
"fr mr president , we are used to the council's seats being empty ."
it is therefore not the first time let us not be hypocritical .
"once again , I find this regrettable ."
"as regards the debate , I am in favour of it going ahead ."
"ladies and gentlemen , I will contact both the court of auditors and the council today ."
"i will also speak to mr zapatero in person about this , because he leads the rotating presidency ."
"i will , today , find a solution to this for the future ."
"in 2000 , the agencies employed 1 219 people , whereas , today , they employ 4 79this general increase is certainly impressive ."
"nonetheless , in the period 2000 2010 , the european union has had to face many challenges ."
"however , that does not exempt them from having to comply with the rules in force ."
the smallest agencies have more difficulty in following the onerous procedures imposed by eu legislation .
"nevertheless , these difficulties do not jeopardise the granting of discharge for the financial year 200the situation is different for the european police college cepol ."
that is why we are proposing that discharge be postponed .
"to conclude , I should like to highlight the efforts made by some agencies to improve their management ."
"to conclude , I do , of course , encourage the agencies to follow this example ."
the 2008 discharge procedure is now reaching its end .
achieving an unqualified statement of assurance from the court of auditors remains the commission's collegial objective .
i believe this has been clearly demonstrated in our recent efforts .
close and intense cooperation between the commission and the european parliament is instrumental in this respect .
"as requested , the commission will prepare and send to the parliament a new agenda for 2010 onwards ."
your considerations expressed in the 2008 discharge resolution will be duly taken into account .
i am looking forward to constructive discussions .
"in retrospect , the continued underfunding of category iv is clear ."
the important thing in my view is that the court of auditors is not talking about fraud or embezzlement .
it jeopardises the success of our foreign policy .
"obviously , amendments to the legal framework are also beginning to have an impact ."
future accounts reports and reviews must indicate how responsibly and successfully recipients handle eu aid .
"actually , I wanted to make a completely different speech ."
i will not do this now because I believe that we cannot simply ignore what happened today .
the only institution that has to take it seriously is the commission .
that is a problem for us .
"the council is now making this year a commendable exception , as the swedish presidency did last year ."
the only other institution that is represented is parliament .
"therefore , we must consider the discharge procedure itself very thoroughly ."
we cannot go on as we have up to now .
i would like to seize the initiative and turn once again to the council .
we expect the immediate legalisation of this state of affairs in budgetary legislation .
you must legalise your responsibilities and I call on you to do this as a matter of urgency .
"i am talking about the european centre for disease prevention and control , the ecdc in stockholm ."
"since may 2005 , highly qualified people there have had to work in an absolutely hostile environment ."
"to this day , none of the employees have a personal identity number , the so called folkbokföring number ."
"however , this number is used by public administrations , institutions and private companies to identify their customers ."
"for spouses , it means it is impossible to become self employed in sweden ."
there are also enormous difficulties in getting a job .
the list could go on .
"as a result , all of this has landed before our committee on petitions ."
"in any case , the situation is untenable .."
the president cut off the speaker 
"nevertheless , I would urge the commissioner to simply ensure that the budget for solvit is used sensibly ."
there is simply a great need for information on this directive in the european union .
"mr president , another point concerns actual customs checks by member states ."
would you now please start the clock for my speech on discharge with regard to transport ?
"in any case , monitoring certainly has been ."
we hope that this lack of data will be remedied in the new institutional framework .
"fr mr president , I am in two minds about whether to take the floor ."
i am sorry for these points of order .
i should like first to welcome the council and to thank the minister for joining us .
we will reach an agreement with the council on whether it thinks there is a need to speak .
"at the same time , discharge is also a political evaluation ."
i would like most emphatically to draw your attention to the fact that not every error constitutes fraud .
i would like to point out that we do not have transparent measurement figures .
certain member states did not even reach 32 % .
everyone bears part of the responsibility for the delays in using up the funds .
"clearly , this raises various problems in the budget process as well ."
we need to use eu money as a seed to grow local solutions .
countless women die giving birth every year .
"aids , malaria and tb still claim some four million lives a year ."
we have close on a billion illiterate people in the developing world .
i am interested in seeing whether we have met those targets .
"whenever I visit the developing world , I am struck by the intelligent and willing young people I meet ."
these young people are every bit as capable as young people everywhere .
they need opportunity and encouragement to be enterprising .
investing in education is the key to this .
"that is why parliament , commission and council agreed to those targets ."
we must now ensure by the audit system that we are meeting those targets .
"therefore , it is important that the council is present ."
"in this way , we can make sure there are no scandals ."
it is extremely important to prevent this from happening .
"we are not talking about parliament's money , but taxpayersmoney ."
we need to obtain an accurate and clear explanation of why there are problems in this area .
this is the reason for the long debate .
we want to know why the visitorscentre is already a few years late according to the timetable .
what could the problem be here ?
we want answers to these questions .
let me give an example .
"if I did so , I would not be paid travelling expenses or any other compensation ."
there are still areas where we need to get back on to the right track .
we will return to these in next year's report .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to begin with a word of thanks ."
i also owe thanks to my fellow members whose proposed amendments contributed to refining the report .
"that is possible only if we also put in place a reliable , solid , internal control system ."
institutional independence is an important guarantee of a properly functioning internal control system .
this is the guarantee of objectivity and the way to ensure compliance with international accounting rules and best practices .
"the standards in themselves do not , however , guarantee an effective internal control system ."
there were improvements in 2009 in this regard .
we rejected all proposals that would reduce the political groupsindependence .
we are convinced that the independence of the european parliament's groups is inseparable from their financial responsibility .
the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats performs its work in full awareness of this responsibility .
"if the other political groups wish to improve their own activities , let them do so ."
"mr president , I am a great fan of the british rock band genesis ."
how can this be prevented ?
"incidentally , I am pleased that the council is still here ."
i am at a loss to understand why they persist in obstructing this .
"fair is fair , however , and greater transparency is also needed in our own parliament ."
my final point concerns mutual relations between the council and parliament .
i shall have another opportunity to do that later .
i should like to raise a few issues .
the first concerns the commission's discharge .
rapporteur mr liberadzki sets forth the new options very clearly in a number of paragraphs .
"commissioner šemeta , I would ask you to address this in your reply ."
are you prepared to take up this option ?
"the council will say fair enough , but there are practical objections ."
"yet this is no problem , ladies and gentlemen ."
"together with mr geier , I have tabled a number of deleting amendments ."
are you prepared to give an answer already as to whether or not you will comply with this ?
i commend the commission for the improvements they have made .
this is most encouraging .
"however , a great deal needs to be done ."
"of course , there are a lot of good things that need no further comment ."
"in some areas , there has even been some progress compared with 200however , there are still too many areas for which we must say that things are not acceptable ."
one example is the commission's accounts .
part of this is due to errors and omissions part to fraud and misappropriation .
is this acceptable ?
we know all the excuses .
"the commission says it is the fault of the member states , because they are responsible for control ."
"the member states say the commission is to blame , because the rules are far too complex ."
the blame is passed from pillar to post .
i agree with those who say that fundamental structural changes are needed to change this situation .
we must therefore use the discharge to push through such changes .
such pressure must also be exerted on the council .
"in april last year , parliament refused to discharge the council's accounts for 2007 by a large majority ."
"today , we have to state that these changes have not taken place ."
let me give a specific example .
we must therefore ask the council the obvious questions .
why are you doing this ? what is all this travel money spent on ?
which countries are benefiting from it ?
"the council is happy to answer informally , off the record ."
that is simply not good enough .
our criticism of the council and the commission is clear .
it is shared by many of our fellow members in other political groups .
we therefore also support the re insertion of the critical passages .
the auditorsreport for 2008 only clears 10 % of the budget .
the rest is affected by different levels of errors .
would any board of directors approve the management of a company in such a state of affairs ?
of course not .
we should be making the decision on discharge in view of this .
"to make matters worse , the commission and parliament are now discussing a tolerable risk of error ."
"when the situation had not changed by november , this parliament took the decision to discharge the council ."
"now again , all cannons are directed to the council and postponement is being proposed ."
are we being serious about our responsibility or are we playing politics here ?
"is discharge an interinstitutional game , as has been said in the past ?"
can taxpayers tolerate this game anymore ?
this is about their money .
"mr czarnecki , I ask you to take the floor on a point of order ."
you were right when you said that mr lópez garrido is on the list of speakers .
we shall see .
he has just the same freedom to speak as you do .
"for that reason , I would like to propose eleven approaches to a solution ."
"they could enable us to save eur 500 million every year , without affecting the quality of administrative performance ."
5 a reduction in the members of the administrative board .
11 the principle of subsidiarity .
the requirement for justification has yet to be taken into account by the commission .
"so , the solutions are on the table ."
"mr geier , mrs gräßle , it is time that you also allowed this solution here in the house ."
i was not formally invited by parliament to attend this debate .
that is what mr gerbrandy said .
that is what the council would like to point out with regard to the debate held this morning .
thank you minister .
thank you very much for so kindly complying with our request .
that gives me cause to say that the commission never receives a formal invitation to this sitting either .
"in this respect , I should like to thank you again very much ."
"firstly , on the annual accounts , the court of auditors has issued a positive statement of assurance ."
"therefore , mr ashworth , perhaps the conservatives will vote in favour of the annual accounts at least ."
"may I take this opportunity to thank mr taverne and his predecessor , mr gray ."
"the fact is , we do not have a clue ."
i have read and reread that statement .
"the court has issued some opinions five paragraphs to us , but we do not know ."
"moreover , the resolution proposes that the court fulfil this task stipulated by the treaty ."
i also propose shortening the deadlines .
can you believe that this is april 2010 and we are talking about the 2008 accounts ?
the deadlines have to be shortened .
i propose a study on the consolidated accounts .
the presence today of the council is the first indication that something is changing in the council as well .
"marvellous , we are pleased as you have heard but that is certainly not enough for us ."
you spoke of the 1970 agreement that you want to amend and develop .
"that is all well and good , but this expectation of ours is hardly new ."
the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats will support mr czarnecki's report .
we share his criticism and that of the other groups .
"we will not grant discharge to the council , either today or next month ."
"however , our criticism , I agree , has no real consequences ."
"as mr audy has pointed out , we must develop our tools ."
"every year , we show the council the yellow card of discharge refusal and nothing happens ."
that will possibly also mean constitutional change .
"thank you very much , mrs weiler ."
many happy returns !
"de thank you , mr president , that was very kind ."
i would first like to thank all the rapporteurs for their efforts .
"however , I see light and shadow in the reports ."
i see light in budgetary management overall .
whether or not it is efficient is another matter altogether .
there is shadow in the area of cohesion policy .
eleven per cent of things do not comply with the rules and this percentage is too high .
"therefore , it is very important that the eu tries harder to recover funds paid out incorrectly ."
we want 100 % of the money back .
"for 2010 , I have the honour of being the rapporteur for the european commission discharge ."
"due to the delayed entry into force of the treaty of lisbon , this will be no easy task ."
we must and will examine this very closely .
"between 2008 and 2009 , the european union paid ngos over eur 300 million in funds ."
these include honourable organisations like the deutsche welthungerhilfe .
this is not acceptable and we must deal with it .
"given the importance of parliament due to the new treaty of lisbon , it is also a necessary step ."
"we must ensure transparency , here and in the council ."
i am pleased that mrs mathieu has recommended a postponement of discharge for the european police college accounts .
"we will support that recommendation , as olaf needs more time to conclude its investigation ."
i can tell parliament that the british conservatives will not accept these irregularities .
"every time we discharge substandard accounts , we encourage more waste and more fraud ."
my party will look particularly carefully at how labour and liberal democrat meps decide to vote on this issue .
anyone who is serious about reforming this system and about protecting the taxpayer should vote against granting discharge .
"we are still not doing enough to simplify the rules , particularly those for the structural funds ."
"independent , external verification within the commission's impact assessment board is truly indispensable ."
"in addition , a broader mandate is required ."
"firstly , there is often the problem of budget support ."
i am extremely critical of this budget support .
i think it is necessary that everyone be treated in the same way and not differently .
"as we are such large institutions , we need buildings and they must be planned carefully and transparently ."
applause 
"self criticism is good , but it should then be accurate ."
some of us have come under more than a little pressure in our home countries regarding this .
there are proposals that are already a reality .
"we could re table them , but why ?"
"there are many good proposals in this report that were , however , all adopted ."
this amendment demands the establishing of an internal control system in groups of this house .
nothing should be more obvious .
"we are seeing the results of this , which is pleasing but more can be done ."
our motto should be not to waste a single cent .
"where the development funds are concerned , the eu is the world's largest giver of aid ."
we here in parliament have a particular responsibility in this respect .
"i submitted a number of amendments to the committee , which were dealt with relatively benevolently by the rapporteur ."
"unfortunately , that is not currently the case ."
allow me to give a very clear example eu aid to eritrea .
they have languished in appalling prison conditions for years .
what have they done ?
they have criticised the country's leadership and president .
we should be clearer about this .
i believe this is what the taxpayers of europe would expect of us .
this title is very apt .
i now have to pay a substantial sum each year to employ an external accountant to provide that accountability .
"therefore , I would urge you to support amendment 33 to paragraph 65 on this subject ."
i am very pleased that the discharge reports have taken up this topic .
"this phenomenon is especially flagrant , in my opinion , among middle and higher level managerial staff ."
doubts are also caused by the long recruitment process and the management of lists of successful candidates .
he cannot come due to the well publicised transport problems .
there are obviously still shortcomings .
these were mentioned by parliament and the court of auditors .
the causes of these shortcomings are both objective and subjective .
the good news is that they can all be remedied and action is being taken to do this .
the main problem arose with the european police college cepol .
the head of the agency gave satisfactory answers on this matter during the committee hearings .
i will boil them down to three measures .
"firstly , agency heads must continue their efforts to observe stricter compliance with budget discipline ."
"yet here we are talking about eur 4.8 million up to 20at first , a sense of helplessness predominated in the committee ."
"until progress is assessed , we also call for the freezing of funds to the annual level of 200here , we have the beginnings of a compromise ."
"no , if we do not react to obvious deficits here , then we are ensuring special treatment ."
"that is , after all , one and the same topic ."
"i call on the commission not to turn a blind eye , just because it is turkey ."
rather support turkey's accession according to the accession criteria that the community itself has set .
"da mr president , I would like to talk today about parliament's discharge report ."
that is a good thing .
i would therefore like to thank mr staes for such a constructive piece of work .
"that is , of course , a good thing ."
"having said that , there is still room for improvement ."
i will merely mention here some of the areas that I think some of the amendments address .
i think we need to do more to allow our citizens to follow our work .
this is a high risk area and good amendments have also been proposed in this respect .
"instead , we should ensure that we have only one seat ."
it also puts us in a better position to criticise the other institutions .
examples include the reimbursement of only those travel expenses actually incurred and the statute for assistants .
i have every confidence in this happening .
our court of auditors is currently unable to do this .
there are also some recommendations within the report that are already included in the 2011 budget proposals .
we all see piles of paper printed every day and surely there must be some scope for reduction there .
i understand some amendments will be put forward again for the 2011 european parliament budget .
my second request regards budgetary control .
we still have the same old pack of paper that shows what is going through plenary this week .
"after all , the european parliament should be at the leading edge of technology ."
"in this regard , we urge the commission to produce recommendations on drafting these management statements ."
we feel that modernisation and additional simplification must be carried out for the future framework programme .
"however , it is not just about transparency , it is also about readability ."
"we are , as it were , paid to deal with such matters full time ."
"this has increased steadily since 2002 , although turkey is taking more steps backward than forward ."
the latest special report by the court of auditors reveals major problems .
funds were not spent effectively and were not sufficiently evaluated .
now to the different agencies in general .
this also includes the new european asylum support office .
"although we are talking about 2008 , a word on the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction ."
"so we are tough as nails with smokers , but are caught napping when it comes to hard drugs ."
the european commission has therefore established programmes that we cannot monitor and whose effectiveness we cannot check .
"with regard to budget discharge , the question here is not whether or not turkey will join the eu ."
it is also about us handling european citizenstax money properly .
this might lead people to suspect that we would object to the discharge of accounts regardless of the evidence .
i would like to reject that suspicion .
"however , we shall oppose the discharge of the accounts as a whole because of the quantity of irregularities ."
we would not confuse judgment of the regularity or irregularity of expenditure with approval or disapproval of the purpose .
i would also like to thank you for a very good discussion today .
mr søndergaard was very concerned about this .
the issue of the role of internal audits and internal controls was raised by mrs herczog .
i also share the views expressed by mr audy and some other honourable members about the discharge procedure .
i think that a thorough discussion involving stakeholders and the court of auditors is needed .
i fully share your views and the views of other members who talked about this issue .
i think that this will give us results in the future .
"on turkey , the commission will follow up the recommendations to improve the objectives and the monitoring of progress ."
this is an important message to convey to citizens of the eu .
we all know what that means .
i would like to remind you that the committee on budgetary control supported the rapporteur with a slight majority .
deciding that at this point is the wrong way to go .
"the first and second times , it was relatively easy to make criticisms in this house ."
the third time it has been harder .
that is my basic position .
"i will remind everyone that a year ago , it was the same ."
the council was granted discharge only in november .
i think I proposed such an oral amendment at the vote in may .
"we need to think very seriously about this , mr president ."
"in this respect , the perception that we are on the road to improvement is certainly not wrong ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the may part session .
written statements rule 149 
we cannot be hard enough on ourselves in this regard .
"wherever there are people working together , things will go wrong ."
even the strictest internal controls cannot prevent that .
yet we must also recognise that great efforts have been made in recent years to put things right .
i should like to give two examples .
"firstly , the new statute for assistants , which is in place at long last following years of discussion ."
the abuses that existed have now been virtually eliminated .
the second example is the reimbursement of expenses .
"action has been taken and clear and precise rules introduced in this field , too ."
has this solved all the problems ?
absolutely not .
"however , there is still room for improvement . significant improvement , I would say ."
the sitting was suspended at 12.00 and resumed at 15.00 
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
swift debate 
the next item is the council and commission statements on swift .
"that , moreover , is precisely what european legislation permits ."
"as a result , we have a detailed draft mandate from the commission ."
"on behalf of the council , I am pleased to confirm that promise today ."
"the tftp is therefore important , not only for the us , but also for europe ."
i recently met us home secretary napolitano and we addressed this issue .
i think the mandate is ambitious but realistic .
"i would like to thank the rapporteur , mrs hennis plasschaert , for the very constructive cooperation we have had ."
the commission has tried to liaise with her and the co rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs in this matter .
we have tried to take on board the concerns expressed in the european parliament resolutions .
data will be processed only for the purpose of terrorism .
a request must be based on judicial authorisation .
third parties will not get bulk data .
there will be reciprocity .
i will ensure that the commission will keep parliament fully and immediately informed throughout the process of negotiations .
but we also need to be realistic here .
we are unlikely to see a huge reduction in what are already targeted requests .
reciprocity is part of the mandate .
the commission is willing to participate in these discussions with member states .
the mandate calls for a five year retention period for non extracted data .
"in conclusion , I believe that the draft mandate is a true substantial improvement ."
it takes into account the concerns of parliament raised in your resolutions .
it is not part of the negotiations .
this is what we shall be discussing today in this chamber .
"after the vote in february , two clear lessons were learnt ."
"it will do so constructively and responsibly , but it will exercise its powers ."
"what exactly do we , here in europe , want for ourselves ?"
"do we want our own european tftp , and how will we go about achieving that ?"
"clearly , bulk data is an issue and it is an issue that cannot be skirted round ."
it needs to be faced .
we are keen to do that in a constructive manner .
we want to go there to show the us authorities that we mean business .
"we want an agreement , but we have concerns and we want those concerns to be addressed ."
quality must come before timeframe .
i would like to make one other preliminary remark .
"in view of current events this week , we have decided not to adopt any decisions here in parliament ."
i do not think we can treat our own decisions like that .
i still maintain that the council should also withhold its decision until after 6 may when we have decided .
i am sure there are no disadvantages to this and that the united states would be understanding .
these are necessary if a majority of the european parliament is to vote in favour of a new agreement .
"in my opinion , the current mandate is not ambitious enough to achieve this ."
the problem of bulk data transfer remains unresolved .
the long period of retention of data in the united states also continues to be a problem .
the mandate does not offer a solution here either .
the transmission of information to third countries must be regulated with clear directives .
we need an ambitious mandate with our demands .
"finally , I have another specific question for the council and the commission ."
how do you intend to ensure that only data that was specifically requested is extracted and passed on ?
how can that work ?
in the united states ?
or are there other proposals ?
"now , my question is , what does that mean ?"
please enlighten me here .
it marks a huge departure from eu legislation and practice .
the presidency has rightly said that the tftp agreement on the exchange of swift bank data is about principles .
"here , I again have to make clear what other experts and even the investigative authorities have said repeatedly ."
it must therefore be ensured that there is no bulk transfer of data .
"otherwise , parliament will remain unable to agree to a tftp agreement ."
"we repudiated at the time the anti americanism , both latent and overt , that characterises some in this house ."
america bears a vastly disproportionate burden worldwide for securing the liberty of us all .
"however , whilst I was saddened to see the deal voted down , I was not altogether surprised ."
there seems to be little appreciation amongst american diplomats of the increased powers and influence of meps .
the united states maintains an almost invisible lobbying presence in the parliament .
the us privacy act still discriminates against non us citizens even commission officials admit that .
"therefore , there is still a huge problem as regards the proportionality of the transfers carried out ."
reasonable suspicion cannot be enough .
the damage caused by the united states in the fight against terrorism is well known .
"as mrs sippel said , quality must take precedence over quantity ."
"yes , a european authority should be able to have actual control over the data that will be transferred ."
"we welcome the progress that has already been made , but it is still not enough ."
"we want a good partnership with our american friends , above all , in the area of security ."
we want a good agreement and we want this agreement very soon .
we should emphasise that this is a time that reflects the spirit of lisbon as seldom before .
"we in our group are not looking for problems , but fighting for solutions ."
these are the matters we need to negotiate on now .
i therefore invite you to come on board .
"help us negotiate and together , we will bring about a good result ."
"i think it is important to state this , before going any further ."
"mr president , clearly , the commission has listened ."
i want to say something on process and something on context .
i would like to thank ambassador bill kennard in that regard .
now what we need is for the council to make the same effort and adopt a progressive mandate .
we need an audit of all the schemes and projects that have accumulated in an unplanned manner .
this parliament is concerned about fundamental rights and the protection of citizensprivacy and also about data protection .
"these are fundamental rights , and a simple cost benefit analysis is inappropriate where these are concerned ."
"this , too , will have to be included in your mandate and the result of your negotiations ."
"pl mr president , the united states is the only world superpower today ."
"it is an absolute and multidimensional superpower cultural , military and economic ."
it was only thanks to the us that free europe was free for 40 years .
what is required of us today is an expression of the political will to enter into such an agreement .
i think such political will should be present here .
parliament now has greater opportunity to make demands as regards the content of the agreement .
"they concern our freedoms and civil rights , and that is the basis of the rule of law ."
that is why we cannot allow the mass transmission of data without restrictions .
such an agreement mixes together innocent citizens with those who may be guilty .
it is claimed that there are technical problems inherent in this .
to me the answer is obvious our legislation must be based on our rights .
the reasons for the refusal were clearly listed and they include in particular 
this tenet must be amended .
the financial operations of european banks should be processed only under european rules and on european soil .
we will hand over to our friends from the united states only those items that really relate to terrorism .
"i did so for the sake of parliament's prerogatives , but also because the agreement was unacceptable ."
"i reiterate that there needs to be absolute respect for the principles of necessity , proportionality and reciprocity ."
"outside this framework , it will not be possible to obtain our consent ."
the european parliament will be consistent with the positions it has always held .
the fight against terrorism is our priority .
we want an agreement with sound guarantees to protect the rights of our european citizens .
we need very good reasons if we are to sayyesthis time .
the council and the commission must inform the european parliament comprehensively and directly .
the principles of proportionality and effectiveness are paramount .
"also , will the united states really do the same for us ?"
the council and the commission are proposing to entrust a european body with examining requests from the united states .
"council and commission , what form do you see this kind of public eu body taking ?"
i should like to hear your responses .
"de mr president , thank you , commissioner malmström ."
"assuming responsibility for the rights of those that we represent , namely the citizens of europe ."
"respect among partners , respect for citizens and respect for european legislation ."
we were able to slip a lot of things that are important to us into this negotiating mandate .
"we have talked a lot about the transfer of aggregated data , so called bulk data transfers ."
"the european parliament's resolution highlights this in two paragraphs , the negotiating mandate in one ."
i am confident that the commission will resolve this in a sensible manner .
"therefore , and let us say it directly , our position is potentially a form of political pressure ."
we have barely two months and one week to begin negotiations with washington .
the european commission is not very flexible in this area .
it has not proposed with the greatest respect for mrs malmström a single similar but alternative position .
the focus should only be on terrorism .
a new agreement must provide greater protection of the personal data of european citizens .
i am pleased to hear that the commission agrees with this .
the new agreement must also ensure stricter guarantees for the transfer of data to third countries .
it is imperative that we have the most appropriate safeguards .
"however , what can we ask for in return ?"
"however , as in all partnerships , complications and difficulties can arise , and we have to overcome these ."
one of the trickier complications has been the issue of people's legitimate right to personal privacy .
the procedures surrounding swift left a great deal to be desired in this respect .
parliament has stated quite clearly what we demand in order to approve a new permanent agreement .
the current plans are disproportionate in my view .
that is why several questions need to be asked .
is it not possible to reduce their retention period to a more reasonable length of time ?
"as regards the data selected , this time , no retention period is mentioned in the mandate ."
the previous agreement stipulated a maximum period of 90 years .
"is there an intended use for these data other than that of combating terrorism , and what is it ?"
"lastly , could we consider retaining these data in europe rather than in the united states ?"
i should like the council and the commission to answer these questions .
ro the european union acknowledges the particular importance of exchanging information globally in the fight against terrorism .
european citizens will also have somewhere to submit complaints about any abuses .
"i feel it is wise , therefore , to think about the best way of enforcing these conditions ."
it is up to parliament to make this one of its prerogatives .
anti americanism is not a common cause in europe .
"in fact , I would like to talk about trust in the relationship with the united states ."
the data provided by swift cannot be used for any purpose other than fighting against terrorism .
let us trust our us partners .
therefore we are in favour of the transfer of specific data .
"however , the transfer of aggregate data is certainly going overboard ."
"unfortunately , the council presidency was conspicuous by its absence ."
"there is , of course , an intermediate position ."
population groups associated with terrorism at a particular time could be targeted .
targeting is viewed with distaste and condemned as discriminatory .
i would call it common sense .
"nevertheless , there must be early destruction of data belonging to innocent members of those targeted groups ."
"we must now join forces in order to adopt a new , definitive agreement ."
"open access to judicial review in contentious cases would , in my view , be a sure guarantee ."
"the retention periods are still too long and , last but not least , I have two questions ."
is there a time limit to this bilateral agreement ?
"if so , what is the timeframe and within what timeframe will the data finally be erased ?"
"we cannot do this by trampling on human rights , however ."
"if this happens , then we will have helped the terrorists ."
it is our credibility that is at stake here .
i am grateful that she has said so publicly .
it is not about that .
the retention period for data has also been mentioned .
data must always be retained with an objective and in relation to a specific person .
"mr coelho , for example , who is not here at the moment , expressed this in some detail ."
"the rights of information , access and correction will and must be assured in the agreement to be signed ."
"in addition , there will be absolute reciprocity ."
"this is one of the topics that was most emphasised in the previous debate , which we all remember ."
there will be absolute reciprocity with regard to the united states .
"member of the commission . madam president , I think this has indeed been a very constructive debate ."
we have listened carefully and are taking due notice of everything that has been said .
there will be an eu review team .
there must be a reasonable belief that the target of the search is a terrorist or someone financing terrorism .
the eu review team will also have access to this information .
the agreement will ensure that eu citizens have access to non discriminatory administrative and judicial rights .
but it is as the council also said a very important part of the negotiation .
"we will have to find a solution to this , and as regards rectification and access ."
the whole deal is only for terrorism purposes .
the use requests for data are already targeted when it comes to bulk data .
there has to be a suspected terrorist that can only be searched .
the rest will remain anonymous .
so I think that we can act swiftly and that we can have a good agreement .
the americans have shown a very open attitude so far .
that is a very important discussion .
it needs to be explored in depth within europe .
"of course , that will not be part of the negotiation ."
so this is a parallel discussion .
"of course , this is also something that has to be put into the picture ."
we have seen the draft resolution and that is signed by four political groups .
we will communicate that to the ministers .
"if we postpone the decision in the council , we will lose two important weeks of negotiations ."
i said earlier that the americans are willing .
"they are constructive and they want to embark on this , but it will not be easy ."
it will be a difficult negotiation and we need the time .
we want to get this done as soon as possible but also as well as possible .
so please be understanding about this .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the first part session in may .
written statements rule 149 
passenger name record pnr debate 
the next item is the council and commission statements on the passenger name record pnr .
the council has therefore asked the commission to put forward a general guideline document in this respect .
"in that respect , it will , of course , take account of parliament's wishes , as always ."
i would like to highlight three items in it .
"these , I believe , are three important principles ."
"they are in the motion for a resolution and , in that respect , we agree with the motion ."
they use such data to combat terrorism and other serious crimes .
"two of these agreements , with the us and australia , are before you for consent to conclude them ."
i think that is a wise strategy .
"in your resolution , you also refer to the pnr agreement with canada ."
that agreement was linked to a set of canadian commitments and a commission adequacy decision .
these documents expired on 22 september last year and a new agreement should therefore be renegotiated with canada .
"for practical reasons , it was not possible to do this before september 200however , this does not diminish the level of protection of pnr data transferred to canada ."
"in conclusion , I welcome this resolution and I will act according to these recommendations ."
i am looking forward to working further with you on these issues .
"in the digital age , we also have to ensure special protection as regards information self determination and privacy ."
"as regards the use of pnr data , we should also include serious crime ."
"in my opinion , this would also contribute to protecting the personal rights of those affected ."
that would certainly also be a step towards confronting globalised crime on a global scale .
"madam president , there are a few basic things I would like to say about this agreement ."
"there are , by all means , similarities with swift , but also differences ."
that is quite clear .
there are still significant objections to this agreement .
i will go into the details once more shortly .
that is why I was not happy when we spoke about postponing the vote .
"however , unlike swift , there were definitely good reasons for this postponement ."
pnr covers 19 individual pieces of data .
that is a crucial question .
we also have to check what level of protection is afforded to data that is transmitted .
we know that the regulations in both agreements with the usa and australia are very different .
we also have to consider in detail the question of how this data is to be used .
"originally , it was always said that it was about combating terrorism ."
"now however , it is also about serious crime ."
this can be discussed .
"however , we must go into great detail here ."
"we know that even within the european union itself , legal systems and legal culture vary greatly ."
"officially , we still do not have these results yet ."
that was in february .
it is very important to create a uniform agreement .
the issue of data must be reviewed again .
today we consider the request for consent by the council on the two agreements with the us and australia .
this house has always been highly critical of the use and transfer of pnr data .
it would therefore be inconsistent with our earlier positions to give consent without further ado .
this is really the key to everything .
we specifically need to look at api data and esta in this context .
that is something completely different and we need to distinguish very carefully .
we need to make very clear what it is that we are talking about .
any use of pnr must be in line with eu data protection standards .
it is our prime responsibility to represent the interests of our own european citizens .
they have a right to know that we uphold european law in international relations and in our internal policies .
i believe with the forthcoming pnr package we have a unique opportunity to get it right .
i do not know whether you have ever seen the film minority report .
"if not , then I would recommend that you watch it ."
so called pre cops try to predict the future by constantly monitoring people's feelings and manners of behaviour .
great !
a seemingly infallible system that finally provides security .
then the chief investigator himself is targeted and the house of cards collapses .
"madam president , I am not an illustrious film critic , as the previous speaker is ."
i would not like our debate to be a debate about cinema .
this can be a matter of life and death for these people .
"it concerns freedom of movement , but it also concerns international conventions and our civil rights ."
mt I would like to make three brief comments .
"i believe that one such lesson was learnt by parliament , namely that greater power brings about greater responsibility ."
this is something that we would do well to emphasise .
"secondly , is this agreement important or not ?"
"in my opinion , it is very important indeed ."
our fight against terrorism is important for our citizenssecurity and we carry great responsibility in this regard .
my third point does this agreement raise issues on data protection and citizensprivacy ?
"therefore , I believe that the resolution before us is good and well balanced ."
"therefore , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur of this resolution for her work on this dossier ."
"both are important , of course , and a careful balance needs to be struck between them ."
just about everyone will travel by air sooner or later .
"evidently , only an administrative appeal is possible against such a ban on entering us territory ."
"nl the tension has indeed eased a little , ladies and gentlemen ."
something needs to be done about this .
we need disclosure regulations like the usa's privacy act .
these must be opened to european citizens .
the way to legal action must likewise stand open to them .
the standards that we want have been set out clearly in the joint resolution .
that happened last year before christmas .
"however , those who decided whether he could fly or not did not have the necessary information to hand ."
i believe that we already know who poses a threat .
the problem is getting the data to where we need it in order to prevent threats .
"unfortunately , this proposal was not taken up by the european interior ministers ."
"instead , there was the proposal to build new data sets and gather new data ."
"it often seems to me that for the interior ministers , collecting new data is the easy option ."
i hope now that we will soon be able to fly safely again .
i have no quarrel with that .
what action will you take to prevent pnr data being used in the profiling and definition of risk factors ?
"to this , I would like to add that no data collection system is sufficient in itself ."
we cannot prevent attempted terrorist attacks without sound data exchange and cooperation of the intelligence services .
still less do I want to see our fundamental privacy rights being violated .
that would be a rewarding task for both sides and would help us in many ways .
"therefore , a definition of the termserious crimeis vital ."
clear correction of data must be possible .
"for us , data protection must be activated , otherwise this agreement is a non starter ."
ro the protection of personal data is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens .
that is what mrs fayot mentioned what measures ought to be adopted ?
i think the debate we had on swift may clarify matters .
i believe the principles we discussed then and agreed upon should be present here .
"lastly , my third comment is connected with the previous one ."
i think that is a false dilemma .
"on the contrary , I believe that security and freedom are two principles that enhance each other ."
"member of the commission . madam president , yes , I have seen the film minority report ."
"hopefully , we will have good results ."
i have listened carefully to the debate .
i have read your resolution .
i think it is a very balanced and wise resolution .
i think this is important and I think it will increase the transparency and depth of our discussions .
"thank you , commissioner , for this collaboration I hope it will be fruitful ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the first part session in may .
ban on use of cyanide mining technologies debate 
i would mention just the decision regarding biodiversity or the water framework directive .
the eu's water framework directive makes member states responsible for protecting water quality and preventing pollution .
is this a worthy goal ?
"yes , it is ."
is it our responsibility to do everything we can in order to reach this goal ?
clearly it is .
are there any mining technologies that endanger our waters and our environment ?
"unfortunately , there are ."
"moreover , there is one extremely dangerous and , at the same time , obsolete technology in particular ."
"ladies and gentlemen , the present moment is one that is both fortunate and pressing ."
this represents a serious threat to our environment .
yet this is the result of this obsolete technology .
"the time is ripe , distinguished fellow members , to take action ."
let us not wait for a new catastrophe to warn us of this .
"i believe that , given the seriousness of the matter , this is absolutely justified ."
i would ask my fellow members to continue their support through the final stage of the decision making process .
"member of the commission . madam president , honourable members , my colleague , commissioner piebalgs excuses himself ."
a full accident prevention policy is required for the facilities in which toxic substances are treated or stored .
clear information requirements are included in the directive if trans boundary impacts are expected .
"this legislation also incorporates requirements for the closure of extraction facilities , and for after closure ."
"in most european deposits , gold is bound with other metals meaning that a separation method is required ."
"even without considering the use of cyanide , mining for gold is far from kind to the environment ."
the same amount can be obtained through the recycling of approximately 5 kg of old mobile phones .
this is why resource efficiency is a priority for this commission .
not all use these dangerous cyanide technologies .
"as the commissioner has correctly established , we have learned from this accident ."
"however , I believe the commission should draw further conclusions in view of this very dangerous technology ."
"on many occasions , europe has committed itself to adhering to high environmental protection standards ."
"with regard to the current investment at roşia montană , the plans involve an exponentially larger gold mine ."
there are numerous problems surrounding the investment .
there is no guarantee that the surface extraction accompanying the investment will not transform the landscape .
a great deal of poison will be released into the environment .
"the expected lifetime of the mine is only 20 years , and it will create scarcely any jobs ."
there is no guarantee that the investor will restore the environment after the mining is finished .
we do not accept what the commission representative has said about there being no safe techniques .
there are practices and experiences from other countries with tragic results .
"also , there is the question of the turkish shores and the related threats to the aegean ."
there are also similar plans in other countries .
"however , hungary , as we already know , decided just last december to ban all cyanide based mining work ."
one member referred earlier to mining programmes being prepared at present in greece .
"we are certain that citizens will obviously react , but we too must act ."
it is well known among professionals that cyanide is one of the most toxic of all chemical substances .
it gets into the organism by inhalation through undamaged skin or after use .
"at sufficient concentrations , death follows in a few seconds or minutes ."
"sometimes , there is human error and sometimes nature springs a surprise ."
"in november 2005 , meps and member states adopted the mining waste directive ."
let us take the example of the roşia montană mining development in alba county .
"in addition , there is not even any european legislation on air quality for such emissions ."
"at the same time , very many tonnes of this toxic rock are created ."
"el madam president , commissioner , after chernobyl , we all understand the nuclear risk ."
the contamination of the food chain in the areas directly affected was long term .
hungary reported 1 367 tonnes of dead fish .
"over 100 persons , mainly children , were poisoned from eating contaminated fish and were treated immediately ."
the time when we sacrificed the local environment and our citizenshealth for jobs is long gone .
"el madam president , commission , the gold is sitting there it cannot escape ."
technologies which use cyanide are hazardous .
"there are regulations , standards and norms in place to prevent accidents ."
we do not need to apply a ban we simply have to observe the rules .
the resolution mentions 30 accidents over the last 25 years .
"cyanide technology is used to obtain a variety of products , including even pharmaceutical products and vitamins ."
"the resolution only discusses mining and , specifically , gold production ."
why ?
the reason is that the problem is not actually with cyanide but with gold .
the only future project I am aware of in europe involving the mining of gold is in romania .
we are aware of the legal measures which the european union has adopted .
continuing to mobilise public opinion in europe is also part of our mission .
finland is a big gold producer by european standards .
now we have to remember one scientific fact gold does not dissolve in liquids other than cyanide .
"therefore , the extraction process in kittilä also involves cyanide , but in closed processes ."
cyanide used in processing the enriched slurry is reused and the residuals of cyanide are destroyed after the process .
even the residuals of cyanide in the water recovered from tailings dams are purified .
"bacteria based extraction would be more nature friendly , but it is not yet used for gold ."
microbial purification of residual cyanide is being developed with good results and I strongly recommend moving in that direction .
"in any case , experts say that using such alternative agents poses greater risks than using cyanide ."
hu allowing or banning mining ventures that use cyanide raises sensitive issues in certain member states .
"in this area , there can be no question of small or large risk ."
technology is also significant there .
"another important matter is the use of microbes , which is a new innovation ."
i believe we need this change in attitude throughout europe .
we must be aware of the fact that we are in the process of developing new technologies .
i therefore really must ask for a long term approach here .
"however , banning these substances must not be viewed as the only solution ."
"toxic , hazardous substances are used in many industrial processes other than mining ."
"however , their causes were similar tailing ponds which collapsed ."
more than 90 % of gold and silver production carried out globally uses cyanide based technology for extracting the metals .
"however , as we have heard , it is highly dangerous ."
"for that reason , as a trade politician , I wonder what can we do about it ?"
"in the european union , we only have limited gold mining capacities ."
the goal is to make a difference worldwide with technical innovations .
"here , there is high technology , I know ."
in germany environmental technologies were developed that will help to avoid cyanide in the future .
we must make these european high technologies commercially viable and we must make them affordable .
i see great potential for trade in this .
my own country was among those affected .
"despite this , the law in many european countries still allows the use of such techniques ."
we also have an even higher number of sites where work is carried out using chemical substances .
"however , substances are used on our planet which are thousands of times more toxic than cyanides ."
"generally speaking , if chemical substances enter water , they destroy life ."
we have many dead rivers around the world which have not been touched by cyanides .
"as a european state , this is definitely the path which romania has chosen to go down ."
every country in the world must do the same .
"mr president , with all due respect , can I say that this debate is largely misdirected ."
the subject before us is a very curious matter .
it reignites an accident that took place 10 years ago .
why ?
why has there been this long silence ?
and why now ?
why a debate now ?
i find the whole matter unjustified .
"in my opinion , and I think in truth , it is just a poor political plot ."
i know it really well .
that was a translation error .
i am familiar with the geography of central europe .
"member of the commission . mr president , thank you for this debate ."
"i will , of course , make sure that mr potočnik gets a full account of it ."
we share your concerns about cyanide .
"it is , of course , a very dangerous toxin and we are aware of that ."
it is therefore extremely important that the directive is duly implemented .
thank you for this debate .
"mr potočnik will , of course , be at your disposal to answer further questions on this ."
the commission is taking this very seriously .
"if you study the directive , you will see that many of your concerns are already there ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the may I part session .
i wish you a safe journey to your homes .
let us hope that it will not be interrupted by a volcano or anything or anybody else !
written statements rule 149 
this spill resulted in the drinking water supply being cut off to 2.5 million people in three countries .
the river somes had cyanide concentrations 700 times above permitted levels .
aquatic life was completely destroyed over a distance of several hundred kilometres .
"we must not forget the details of this disaster , which has become synonymous internationally with pollution ."
hazardous substances have no place in mining if we want to prevent disasters .
what will the consequences be then ?
history teaches us lessons .
it is incumbent upon all of us to learn them .
"since 1990 , there have been some thirty cases worldwide of serious pollution caused by cyanide mining ."
the disaster on the tisza river ten years ago is considered the most serious european environmental disaster since chernobyl .
i ask that this honourable house vote for our initiative .
documents received see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament .
the sitting was closed at 18.30 
resumption of the session
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 22 april 20the minutes of 22 april 2010 have been distributed .
are there any comments ?
the minutes of the previous sitting were approved 
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
announcement by the president see minutes
these engineers will record the debates and votes in order to produce a 360o panorama of parliament's work .
thank you for your understanding .
composition of committees see minutes
documents received see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
order of business
"wednesday , 5 may 2010 "
"thursday , 6 may 2010 "
are there any comments ?
parliament approved the amendments 
the order of business was adopted thus amended 
swift motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
passenger name record pnr motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
ban on use of cyanide mining technologies motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
administrative cooperation and combating fraud in the field of value added tax recast 
common system of value added tax as regards the rules on invoicing 
request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr miloslav ransdorf 
"2008 discharge eu general budget , court of justice"
"2008 discharge eu general budget , court of auditors"
"2008 discharge eu general budget , european ombudsman"
"2008 discharge eu general budget , european data protection supervisor"
2008 discharge translation centre for the bodies of the european union
2008 discharge european centre for the development of vocational training
2008 discharge community fisheries control agency
2008 discharge european agency for reconstruction
2008 discharge european aviation safety agency
2008 discharge european centre for disease prevention and control
2008 discharge european chemicals agency
2008 discharge european environment agency
2008 discharge european environment agency
2008 discharge european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction
2008 discharge european medicines agency
2008 discharge european maritime safety agency
2008 discharge european network information security agency
2008 discharge european railway agency
2008 discharge european training foundation
2008 discharge european agency for safety and health at work
2008 discharge euratom supply agency
2008 discharge european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions
2008 discharge eurojust
2008 discharge european union agency for fundamental rights
2008 discharge frontex
2008 discharge european gnss supervisory authority
2008 discharge european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy
2008 discharge sesar joint undertaking sju 
transportable pressure equipment 
aviation security charges 
community guidelines for the development of the trans european transport network recast 
consequences of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon for ongoing interinstitutional decision making procedures 
3power of legislative delegation 
strategic goals and recommendations for the eu's maritime transport policy until 2018 
europeana the next steps 
evaluation and assessment of the animal welfare action plan 2006 2010 
eu agriculture and climate change 
agriculture in areas with natural handicaps a special health check 
a new digital agenda for europe 2015.eu 
2008 discharge eu general budget section iii commission
"de mr president , I should like to ask for a technical correction to be made ."
all these comments will be checked for accuracy .
"with the lisbon treaty in place , it is time for a review of the discharge process itself ."
"although my report is about the 2008 discharge , it contains many issues that are highly topical today ."
we all want to make sure that greece can overcome the problems from the past .
all the improvements I have highlighted are essential .
"2008 discharge seventh , eighth , ninth and tenth european development funds edf "
"2008 discharge eu general budget , european parliament"
"2008 discharge eu general budget , economic and social committee"
"2008 discharge eu general budget , committee of the regions"
"2008 discharge performance , financial management and control of agencies"
2008 discharge european police college
the eu strategy for relations with latin america 
"i may be wrong , but I think we have gone directly on to the committee of the regions ."
eu canada summit 
swift 
"mr president , I just think that it is important to ."
interjection from the floor 
"i would like not to be disturbed by colleagues on the extreme right , please ."
"we have been discussing whether we are against or for the position , but it is good to know ."
passenger name record pnr 
ban on use of cyanide mining technologies
voting time
τhe next item is the vote .
for outcome of the vote and other details see minutes 
"as such , the presidency proposes that the vote on this issue be postponed until the next part session ."
"mr president , I , too , heard about the meeting between president buzek and mr zapatero ."
"what we would be deciding today , namely to postpone the discharge of the council , has serious implications ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I have heard mr schulz out ."
we have twice held informal negotiations with the council to come to an agreement .
the council has consistently refused to enter into such an agreement .
the second problem is of a legislative nature .
"we are talking about the 2008 budget , and so n + 2 = 15 may 20we can say , therefore , that once again the council has not presented the right documents ."
τhe next item is the vote .
for outcome of the vote and other details see minutes 
explanations of vote
"i share the rapporteur's concerns about the protection of personal data , which must be respected ."
this type of data must be used only with the goal of preventing and combating tax offences .
i voted for a european strategy for combating tax fraud and evasion relating to vat .
"greater cooperation between central administrations is desirable , by sharing information with respect for individual privacy ."
the fight against tax fraud across the eu must complement the action of the member states .
i voted in favour of mr casa's report concerning the rules for vat invoicing .
it was becoming essential to do away with the administrative set up linked to invoicing .
i welcome the adoption of this report in numerous respects .
i also agree with the principle regarding the possibility of giving equal validity to electronic invoices and paper invoices .
in writing . this was my own report on the vat rules on invoicing .
to this end the report was successful in achieving its aims and I have voted in favour .
the adoption of this report is also another step in the fight against fraud and tax evasion .
"given the open market and the movement of services , nothing else would be reasonable ."
i am pleased with the smooth functioning of the ecj .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
this report provides an exhaustive analysis of the budgetary situation of the european court of justice ecj .
that is why I voted for the report on the court of justice .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
"it noted , however , that certain aspects of the public procurement process could be improved ."
that is why I voted for the report on the european ombudsman .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
"therefore , they must objectively and rigorously account for how public funds have been used ."
that is essential for building people's trust in public office holders .
that is why I voted for the report on the european data protection supervisor .
i am surprised that the pensions dispute has not been resolved .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
"this situation must , therefore , be remedied ."
that is why I voted for the report on the translation centre for the bodies of the european union .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european centre for the development of vocational training .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
the administrative board should therefore be congratulated on its decision to begin to develop this kind of programme .
such a programme will be essential for improving the agency's budgetary and financial management .
"although the court approved this management , it still has some shortcomings that need to be addressed ."
that is why I voted for the report on the community fisheries control agency .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european agency for reconstruction .
i argue that it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european aviation safety agency .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european centre for disease prevention and control .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european chemicals agency .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european environment agency .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european food safety authority .
i believe that it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
i join the rapporteur in congratulating the agency on having put in place sophisticated activity based budgeting and user satisfaction monitoring .
that is why I voted for the report on the european medicines agency .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european maritime safety agency .
i believe that it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
these deficiencies must therefore be overcome .
that is why I voted for the report on the european network and information security agency .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
"therefore , they must objectively and rigorously account for how public funds have been used ."
that is why I voted for the report on the european railway agency .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european training foundation .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european agency for safety and health at work .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
"that may raise questions regarding its structure and autonomy , which can be examined in the future ."
that is why I voted for the report on the euratom supply agency .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on eurojust .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
i would especially highlight the introduction of measures to improve performance assessment .
such actions need to be developed further .
that is why I voted for the report on the european union agency for fundamental rights .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the european gnss supervisory authority .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
i believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public .
that is why I voted for the report on the sesar joint undertaking .
"however , some technical provisions of the existing directive conflict with international rules on the transport of dangerous goods ."
its proper implementation at member state level will also provide increased protection for the environment and citizenshealth .
"for these reasons , I voted in favour of the report ."
each individual member state decides on the methods for financing and applying aviation security .
the issue of financing security charges should be entrusted to the individual member states .
"parliament has more than once called for regulation of the financing of security charges , but without success ."
parliament believes that the member states should foot the bill for implementing stricter measures .
we voted for this report because of our opposition to this situation .
"for these reasons , this proposal is to be welcomed ."
in writing . I voted yes to the report .
parliament had repeatedly called for the commission to regulate the financing of security charges in the aviation sector .
the commission proposal does not address this issue .
i was pleased to hear the results of today's vote .
the priority projects envisaged also include the curtici braşov railway line .
i voted resolutely in favour of this text .
it also introduces some minor modifications .
"in technical terms , this proposal is one to codify the legal text ."
"however , the commission was obliged to recast it , since the annex has been slightly amended ."
i voted for the adoption of these amendments .
the request for equal treatment for the outermost regions must be heard .
"these hands have a stranglehold on us , which we deplore ."
it is estimated that they will be finalised by the end of next year .
amendments to and redefinitions of the development of the trans european transport network have been going on for years .
in writing . I voted in favour of this report even though our amendment was not adopted .
this report is broadly supported not only in parliament but also in the commission and council .
it is also markedly technical .
its adoption in this chamber follows its practically unanimous recommendation by the committee on transport and tourism .
it is hoped that intercommunication among member states will double by 20a united europe is impossible without a coordinated and effective trans european transport network ten t .
"on the basis of a respective eu treaty , investment in the ten t will reach around eur 500 billion ."
it is therefore important to ensure european cooperation and carefully select priority projects .
"the ten t is intended to link land , sea and air transport networks throughout europe by 20the main objective is to ensure fast and easy movement of people and goods among member states ."
if we want the port to remain competitive we need to modernise its current infrastructure and remove red tape .
railways and internal waterways should in particular be used for long distance transport and roads for short distances .
the most important thing is passenger safety and protection .
the financial crisis has had an impact on transport policy .
"however , the ten t may be used to create jobs and observe social and economic cohesion ."
the europe 2020 strategy recognises the importance of transport policy for europe's economy .
free movement of people and goods is what defines the eu .
this is only possible with a good ten t .
"economic forecasts predict a major reduction in eu growth of 1.1 % in 20in this context , this report represents a reaction to the financial crisis and its socioeconomic repercussions ."
hence I consider it extremely important for achieving greater transparency and simplification of the rules governing cohesion policy .
"as for the financial aspect , I called for the initial proposal to be refocused ."
"these are inclusive of the european regional development fund , the european social fund and the cohesion fund ."
"above all , it meets their demands for simplifying the management of the funds ."
relaxing the deadlines for the use of the funds is a major step forward .
the amendment should lead to the application of so called support thresholds .
"a threshold of eur 50 million should apply , instead of the current eur 25 million ."
large projects should also be protected from automatic decommitment .
"if there must be exemptions , let them be applied to everyone in the same way !"
economies are interconnected and the consequences of economic management cut both ways .
even in times of crisis let us fight for equal conditions in equivalent situations !
the report takes account of this and I therefore support its adoption .
"i welcome the adoption of the kirilov report , which I supported with my vote ."
the main element of the commission proposal aimed to address the consequences of the financial crisis .
the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has entailed a change in the legislative procedure .
"these countries are estonia , hungary , romania , latvia and lithuania ."
"in times of crisis , the eu is once again showing its true colours ."
eu subsidies have even been adjusted accordingly .
putting money into a bottomless pit at will without accompanying measures can be dangerous .
i have therefore rejected the proposal .
these include 
the global financial crisis has affected all of the eu member states .
i feel that the baltic states have suffered the most painful blow .
severe measures were taken because of the financial hurricane and jobs were lost .
"however , we have a unique opportunity to turn the crisis into an opportunity ."
the erdf stimulates economic development and recovery in less prosperous parts of the eu .
it helps to fund measures like the regeneration of industrial areas affected by the reduction of towns and villages .
"since joining the eu , lithuania has experienced a massivebrain drain."
the best way of combating this is investing the eu structural funds in young professionals .
the treaty of lisbon clearly grants parliament new responsibilities and new powers .
"in other cases , there is just a change in legal basis ."
the commission is seeking to change them formally by means of itsomnibusproposal .
i therefore support this house's motion for a resolution .
the commission and the council must urgently make the necessary changes in light of the new legislative framework .
the treaty of lisbon grants parliament new responsibilities and new powers .
"in other cases , there is just a change in legal basis ."
the commission is seeking to change them formally by means of itsomnibusproposal .
i am therefore voting in favour of this resolution of the european parliament .
it does so with special reservations and severely restricts the scope of such acts .
"although such acts are common in the member states , that cannot be said of the acts in question ."
thedelegated actsadopted accordingly by the commission are non legislative acts of general application .
the rapporteur is advocating the stricter monitoring of the commission in its exercising of its delegated legislative powers .
"for this reason , I voted in favour of the adoption of the report ."
it was adopted by a large majority .
i voted in favour of the report on the power of legislative delegation .
"however , this requires an absolute majority , in other words a majority of the number of elected meps ."
"in view of the absence of members , this normally means 60 % of those voting ."
"previously , only the council was able to do this , provided a qualified majority of votes was obtained ."
the commission wants to safeguard its independence and continue to use its expert groups .
"the rapporteur , mr szájer , rejects both national expert groups and the involvement of national authorities ."
i do not agree with the latter point .
"with the new treaty , parliament takes on the role of co legislator , together with the council ."
the competitiveness of european maritime transport should remain one of the strategic objectives of european union maritime transport policy .
the european union's marine territory is the most extensive in the world .
the democratic movement delegation welcomes the adoption of strategic goals for the eu's maritime transport until 20it must be realised that the european maritime sector mainly operates and competes in a global market .
the maritime transport sector faces major challenges with regard to the environment .
that is why I am voting against this text .
technological development and cutting out unnecessary red tape to attract investment into the port sector are also priorities .
"the report we have adopted today covers these guidelines in general terms , and has therefore won my support ."
the eu is the most significant global exporter and the second biggest importer .
"therefore , shipping and similar services are essential if we want european companies to compete on a global scale ."
"coastal shipping is an important part of the european transport chain , carrying 40 % of cargo within europe ."
the european parliament is one of the defenders of maritime policy in the eu .
"the eu's maritime transport policy also supports other policies , in particular an integrated maritime policy ."
the global financial crisis has also affected the maritime transport sector .
the long term competitiveness of european shipping is the cornerstone of eu maritime policy .
the days of european neighbours competing are over .
this applies both to lithuania and to the rest of europe .
this is a long term task that requires close monitoring and measurable progress .
i therefore voted resolutely in favour of this ambitious project .
"for this reason , I am in favour of the draft report ."
it is more than fair to highlight the role of the universities in that respect .
"in that respect , europeana is heir to the best european tradition ."
all other countries provide 5 % or less each .
an increased contribution by the member states is desirable .
we must safeguard access for all europeans to the artistic and cultural treasures of europe that constitute their heritage .
today we must improve the contents of europeana while ensuring respect for intellectual property .
only then can we talk about more financial resources .
i have therefore abstained from voting .
the eu mottounited in diversityis very appropriate for the europeana project .
this is particularly the case among new eu member states .
i hope that the report we have adopted will further accelerate the implementation of the europeana project .
"in addition , particular attention needs to be given to protecting intellectual property rights ."
it was in 2000 that the idea of creating a virtual european library was launched .
the objective was to put european cultural heritage online to make it more accessible for everyone .
whoever thinks of europeana thinks ofculture.
the project is certainly nowhere near finished .
the project has been endorsed by the polish librariansassociation .
"currently , only 5 % of europe's cultural heritage is available in digitised form ."
an information campaign is needed to heighten awareness of europeana .
this is why I endorsed mrs trüpel's report .
the success of the project will depend to a large extent on the continued financial commitment of member states .
i therefore refused to support this move on both form and content .
these are further reasons why I voted for this report .
i voted in favour of the report on the animal welfare action plan 2006 20european producers and farmers have high standards .
member states must also ensure that any violations of eu animal welfare rules result in effective penalties .
the good health and high quality husbandry of livestock are also of fundamental importance for human public health .
only in this way will free and fair economic competition be made possible on the internal market .
a high level of animal welfare from breeding to slaughter can improve product safety and quality .
european standards in this area are some of the highest in the world .
"however , compliance with these standards must not put european producers at a disadvantage in the european market ."
"the truth is that these standards entail operating , financial and administrative costs for the eu's farmers ."
reciprocity of standards is necessary if there is to be fair competition with regard to non union producers .
"therefore , european farmers must be compensated for the higher production costs inherent to higher animal welfare standards ."
the financing of this compensation must consist of new common agricultural policy grant schemes from 2013 onwards .
i have two comments with regard to this report .
the danish social democrats voted in favour of the report on animal welfare in the eu .
i welcome the fact that europe has achieved one of the highest levels in the world in this area .
for years the eu has been trying to attain standardised directives on matters relating to animal husbandry .
"however , I should like to point out that it is important for this legislation to represent minimum standards ."
the member states and the regions must have the opportunity to implement more far reaching animal welfare legislation .
the report therefore emphasises the need to compensate these same producers for their efforts .
"today , we have adopted an important resolution which assesses the european commission's animal welfare action plan 2006 20uk farmers already meet very high voluntary standards of soil management and have continued to improve standards ."
"nevertheless , these objectives absolutely must not be a pretext for weakening agriculture in the eu ."
"to ensure this , we must guarantee better use of resources and product traceability ."
i therefore voted for this report because it respects these balances .
in writing . I gave my full support to this report .
"the upcoming cap reform will have to take into account many issues , including climate change ."
"the new cap , thus , will have to meet growing public demand for a more sustainable agricultural policy ."
"for the time being , the cap does not address environmental issues in a consistent manner ."
the common agricultural policy is a key area in the fight against climate change in the coming years .
agriculture is dealt a double blow by climate change .
it is the first to suffer the increase in droughts and natural disasters .
"however , it is also behind 9 % of the greenhouse gas emissions in europe ."
the european parliament is showing that virtuous courses of action are within our reach .
nitrogen fertilisers used by farmers are significant emitters of comethane from animal faeces is also a renewable source of energy .
"moreover , european forests and soil are both incredible reservoirs of coagriculture has been and will remain the main source of food globally ."
the european union must start devising policies or urgently implement existing policies in order to avert a long term crisis .
european agriculture contributes to achieving the union's climate change mitigation objectives for 20these are all essential issues .
there will have to be a place for them in future agricultural policy .
we believe that the member states should continue to make the decisions on matters relating to forestry policy .
"however , agriculture can also contribute to combating climate change and has great potential for sustainable development ."
"we need to move towards more sustainable agriculture , which means greater efficiency ."
agriculture actually has a crucial place and a role to play in the fight against global warming .
the danish social democrats voted in favour of the report on agriculture and climate change .
appropriate management of farms will result in carbon capture and greater food security .
"this report supports productivism and liberalism , which goes against the general interest ."
that depends on respect for human beings and for our ecosystem .
productivism and capitalism do not invite either .
all initiatives that aim to reduce global warming are welcome .
let us not forget that the agricultural sector is responsible for almost 10 % of co2 emissions .
it is therefore necessary to build on the sustainable aspect of agriculture .
"clearly , european agriculture must play a major role in combating climate change ."
"there are several possibilities the use of carbon sinks , a renewable energy supply and new irrigation techniques ."
in writing . sv I voted against this report .
the reason for this is that mr le foll advocates a common forestry policy .
forestry policy is a national matter there are very large differences between the eu member states .
a technical error was made by the group .
i voted in favour of stéphane le foll's report .
our agriculture will assist the european union in meeting its objectives to reduce emissions .
i am resolutely confident that the cap will become more sustainable over time .
i support an environmentally friendly common agricultural policy !
"however , the costs associated with adapting the cap and reducing climate change are not yet clear ."
there needs to be a thorough analysis of the economic benefit .
"climate change is a real threat , but in the short term better management of resources is required ."
eu expansion had a great impact on eu agriculture .
the 6 million farmers of the existing eu were joined by another 7 million farmers .
this fact alone underlines the importance of farming to the eu's natural environment .
i voted in favour of the dorfmann report on farming in areas with natural handicaps less favoured areas .
it is absolutely paramount to focus this support in the areas most affected by land abandonment .
i support the entire report .
support for less favoured rural areas constitutes an essential element of rural development policy .
this report emphasises the importance that the new common agricultural policy will have for all member states .
i thank mr dorfmann and congratulate him on his excellent report .
achieving this objective will not be possible without close cooperation with member states .
there is no doubt that farms in the outermost regions are in particular need of financial support .
smallholders in particular lack the staff to be able to remain competitive .
"with a view to a fairer distribution of compensation payments , I have voted in favour of this report ."
"i voted for this report , which tackles the problems facing farmers in many eu member states ."
i have therefore voted in favour of this report .
the previous criteria for support of these areas must be modified so that they reflect actually existing handicaps .
"of course , all measures must be based on an eu framework ."
"in writing . I voted in favour of this report , together with my group ."
i abstained / voted against the dorfmann report .
the reason for me taking this position is evident from the report .
the eu's rural areas are extremely diverse .
climate change makes it particularly difficult to draw up a list of criteria and fixed standards for subsidies .
"the eu has requested detailed maps from the member states , but only a few countries have supplied them ."
the common agricultural policy was drawn up when the ec / eu had six member states .
the situation today is completely different and even more complicated .
the management of agricultural aid should be handled by the member states .
they have the local knowledge .
we are currently in the midst of a crisis for the euro .
a single currency is an obstacle to adapting interest rates and currencies to different circumstances within the euro area .
a single agricultural policy is equally inappropriate for all 27 member states .
this is why we need to speed up the investments towards this .
this matter revolves around internet access for all citizens of the eu .
"for all these reasons , I voted in favour of this report ."
in writing . I voted for this report .
to attain those goals it is necessary the significantly reduce digital literacy and competence gaps by 20in order to have a competitive digital agenda we must start from the people .
i support the excellent report on the new digital agenda by mrs del castillo vera .
adigital agendais increasingly important and unavoidable in our society .
i would stress the importance of offering all citizens ubiquitous and high speed access to fixed and mobile broadband .
let us contribute to these proposals .
"nonetheless , we believe that a cutting edge digital agenda rejects any commercialisation of knowledge , education and research ."
that is why we abstained .
smes can act as the catalyst for economic recovery in europe .
such an initiative could be implemented by specifically offering free internet connection and consultancy .
we cannot forget that an informed and enlightened public contributes to increasing europe's potential .
i support the measures to that effect and have therefore voted in favour of this report .
europe continues to be a global leader in the field of advanced information and communication technologies ict .
retaining this leadership and transforming it into a competitive advantage is a vital political objective .
all citizens need to partake in the digital revolution for it to become a success .
the funds disbursed incorrectly amount to 11 % .
this was caused by complicated rules and regulations that member states must adhere to .
this is particularly important if we realise that 80 % of eu expenditure is administered by the member states .
"however , the european parliament is granting it discharge in respect of its management ."
the situation as regards pre accession assistance for turkey is particularly serious and worrying .
that is why we voted against the majority of these texts on budget discharge .
a vote for discharge does not mean that the situation is totally ideal .
"i think that the situation is evolving in the right direction , but at too slow a rate ."
"the number of errors has fallen , but we have still not reached thetolerable error level."
"there are shortcomings in many other member states , and common monitoring rules need to be applied ."
that is why I voted for the report on the commission and executive agencies .
"however , this proved to be unfeasible , which is why I voted against the entire liberadzki report ."
they also supported recommendations in relation to providing information to european taxpayers about parliament's use of public money .
the european parliament has voted on the discharge in respect of parliament's own accounts for 200never before has this been done so thoroughly and with such a critical eye .
"moreover , a great deal of support has been shown for this critical report across many groups in parliament ."
parliament's evaluation of the accounts submitted and their respective discharge falls into this category .
"that is why I voted for the report on performance , financial management and control of eu agencies ."
that is why I voted for the report on the european police college .
i therefore clearly voted in favour of this report .
"latin america may fall short in the area of democracy , judging by european standards and principles ."
the european parliament recently debated a resolution concerning blatant human rights violations in cuba .
the situation ended in the death of people who were exercising their right to free expression .
these are tragic situations which must never happen again .
"latin america is a huge continent , which cannot be ignored from an economic or social perspective ."
"i am talking , obviously , about the largest portuguese speaking country in the world brazil ."
brazil will be the last brics to meet the eu in a summit .
the correction of this anachronistic and regrettable situation is urgent .
the biregional strategic partnership contributes to further coordination between the eu and latin america within international forums and institutions .
"this text , which is of an arrogant and imperial nature , is not acceptable ."
"it endorses the resumption of free trade agreement negotiations with central america , colombia and peru ."
these negotiations are harmful from an economic and social perspective as much as a democratic one .
"i vote against this text , which is in breach of the principles of democracy and humanism ."
we therefore argue that the eu must improve its actions at international level .
"that being the case , it must intervene in a more consistent and effective way in international politics ."
there are already multilateral organisations such as the united nations for this sort of dialogue .
it also includes the creation of the europe latin america and caribbean foundation .
"it is absurd to call on the latin american countries to introduce sex education , for example ."
i therefore abstained during the final vote .
the european union is latin america's partner .
"together we must conserve the environment , save natural resources and also fight poverty , inequality and migration ."
"moreover , it will bring its inhabitants increased security and prosperity ."
in writing . I abstained on the final vote on this report .
"all in all , 10 out of the 16 green / efa amendments were adopted ."
the european union and latin america have been developing a strong strategic partnership for years .
it is also regrettable that adequate compensation for these regions has not been found at union level .
european union citizens must enjoy equal and fair treatment .
citizens of three eu member states still require visas to enter canada .
"at the same time , canada's asylum system needs to be reviewed ."
guaranteeing reciprocity in bilateral relations is one of the european union's basic principles .
i completely oppose it .
canada has a history of partnership with the eu .
it is therefore natural that over the years this relationship has deepened and improved .
in writing . the resolution was carried with a large majority .
"the text is largely sound , but it contains two paragraphs that I simply cannot support ."
i strongly oppose this type of levy or tax on international transactions .
"in my view , the negotiation mandate presented to the council today by parliament supports this view ."
a system for protecting personal data must be implemented transparently and unequivocally .
currently targeted data exchange is impossible .
there should be an appropriate eu appointed authority to monitor the implementation of these measures .
"as a national state , romania has supported the adoption of the swift agreement ."
the european parliament is aware that this agreement is important even for europeanssecurity .
the european parliament has acquired greater decision making powers through the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon .
the issue of the protection of personal data is an important one for the european parliament .
"therefore , we have been very vigilant as regards the issue of transferring air passenger data ."
we will protect the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens all the way .
the agreement needs to be limited in duration and liable for immediate termination should any obligation not be met .
this agreement must be permanently on parliament's radar .
the european parliament has expressed its stance on this matter on a number of occasions .
the data transfer must be justified and take place in a transparent manner .
i firmly believe that the jha council will take into consideration the recommendations featuring in this resolution .
international legal cooperation and transatlantic cooperation are fundamental to the fight against terrorism .
"nonetheless , such an agreement cannot put the privacy of the transactions of natural and legal persons at risk ."
"security , however , should not override but rather be compatible with other rights , freedoms and guarantees ."
i therefore voted against the interim agreement .
"there is a different understanding of data protection , competencies , legislation and privacy where eu us relations are concerned ."
these issues need to be clarified before the commission is given a new mandate .
to turn europe into a vassal of the united states is completely unacceptable .
there has never been a better time for europe to assert its independence from the united states .
any mechanism that may help discover possible attacks is essential to success in this fight .
the european parliament cannot allow the civil rights and freedoms of europeans to be violated for counter terrorism purposes .
that is very much to be welcomed .
this is clearly simply assumed .
"however , it is unclear whether we can counter the phenomenon of terrorism effectively in this way ."
it is also unclear how the calls for more data protection are to be implemented in practice .
in writing . I abstained on the vote on the swift resolution tftp .
"it was adopted , however , by a very large majority no roll call vote ."
in writing . I supported this resolution .
that is why I hope that the discussions continue .
i shall vote in favour of this text .
this is the kind of arbitrary restriction of freedoms to which agreements of this type expose us .
terrorist acts do occur .
they must be combated .
"however , they must never be used as a pretext for repressing fundamental freedoms ."
passenger name records pnr are another weapon in the fight against terrorism .
"the union will not , however , endanger civil liberties and fundamental rights ."
"for this reason , I voted in favour of the motion ."
in writing . I voted in favour of this resolution .
the pnr resolution was adopted by a very large majority and with our support .
this chemical has caused the largest ecological disaster in the history of central europe .
i support the amendment aimed at removing paragraph 4 contained in the draft resolution voted on today .
i therefore voted for this amendment .
"however , I voted against the draft resolution for a number of reasons ."
"as an mep , I support the opportunity being offered to this area with all its problems ."
this spill is responsible for one of the worst ever environmental disasters in central europe .
there is nothing to stop an accident such as this from happening again .
in europe there are several mining projects using cyanide .
a new disaster could happen at any time .
it is simply a matter of time and of human negligence .
"cyanide mining employs only a small workforce , but poses the risk of real environmental disasters ."
european environmental legislation enshrines the precautionary principle and requires the prevention and monitoring of water pollution .
"this issue concerns numerous countries , the health of european citizens and environmental protection ."
"also , all member states should undertake to ban the use of cyanide , as hungary did recently ."
"the environmental consequences of cyanide pollution are transnational , and therefore this ban must apply at european level ."
we hope that the member states will stop supporting mining projects using cyanide based technologies .
"in the swedish gold mining industry , cyanide is used in closed systems in an environmentally sustainable way ."
high safety standards prevent the cyanide from having any impact on the environment .
cyanide is one of these hazardous substances and the handling of cyanide is regulated for obvious reasons .
"in other parts of the eu , the handling of the substance is not as strictly controlled ."
cyanide also qualifies as a main pollutant under the water framework directive wfd .
this is highlighted by this resolution .
cyanide is a highly toxic chemical used in gold mining .
it poses a serious threat to the environment and human health .
there are technologies in the economic sector which pose a hazard to human health and the environment .
cyanide technology is just one of them .
this principle applies to mining technology as well .
there is legislation in force which must be respected .
"we do not have the right to ban , but we do have the right to protect ."
in writing . I voted in favour of the final text .
this is standard practice in europe and minimises the risk of hazardous emissions .
i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
statements by the president
"on behalf of the european parliament , I offer condolences and expressions of sympathy to the victimsfamilies ."
"as we can see , the world we live in still entails sacrifices such as these ."
i am sure you are aware that last week I made an official visit to the us .
i officially opened parliament's new liaison office with the united states congress in washington .
we expect cooperation with the united states to take place on equal terms .
"this sunday , 9 may , is the 60th anniversary of the schumann declaration ."
there will also be ceremonies to commemorate this event in luxembourg .
the next item is the joint debate on the following 
der sommer war sehr groß ..
"rilke was the favourite poet of our recently deceased fellow member , dimitris tsatsos ."
we called that the community method .
"both questions are linked , although they are dealt with in two different reports ."
i will begin with the calling of an intergovernmental conference .
"consequently , mr president , there is no debate ."
we are in favour of holding the intergovernmental conference we are against calling a convention .
"therefore , the citizens of these countries will be even better represented in the european parliament ."
"some electoral systems do allow this , but it appears that others do not ."
"following lengthy discussions , my committee concluded that this is a fair position ."
we therefore support what has already been said .
"firstly , we are revising the treaty ."
this is no light matter .
"that is all this is about , but it is an important question ."
"nevertheless , the treaty itself requires that a convention be held to revise the treaty ."
parliament responds that there is no need .
there is no need on this occasion .
"this is what we are dealing with , but there is a problem ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we have a broad consensus on this matter ."
we look forward to the enlargement of parliament and we look forward to 18 new members .
we want to create the conditions for this now so that they can come and work together with us .
it concerns the question of who decides who these new members will be .
"for us , that is not a secondary issue , it is a key question ."
it is the citizens who do the electing .
in 11 out of 12 countries that is what has happened .
"however , at this point the treaty is at risk of collapsing ."
such a convention would merely serve to waste time and taxpayersmoney .
"indeed , the balance of opinion in britain is that political union has already progressed too far ."
we should be prudent with public money at all times .
my group will vote against this report because it disregards that important principle .
"mr president , we disagree on many things where the eu is concerned ."
we doubtless also disagree on many things where the european parliament is concerned .
i think this is a very bad development .
i also think it is a very unfortunate development .
"it is , of course , contrary to the treaty ."
we would therefore have to revise the treaty .
"however , it is also contrary to what we actually do in practice ."
did we say that the members from these countries could sit for two and a half years without elections being held ?
"mr president , there is something bizarre about the situation that we find ourselves in right now ."
there is something rather strange about this .
"like the previous speaker , I therefore have to say that my group cannot support these reports ."
"fr mr president , I shall come straight to the point ."
it is not at all impossible to stick to the election .
"indeed , we must take the quickest path , because at this stage there is little to discuss ."
i see no need to convene a convention .
it is a matter of detail that needs to be clarified .
the ball is therefore back in the council's court .
the méndez de vigo report is a good basis for strengthening this process .
that would set a precedent and I am not happy to accept that .
our parliament must not sanction this serious breach of the principle of european democracy .
we must refuse to undermine our legitimacy and our credibility as elected representatives of the european public .
a further complication is that the treaty stipulates the total number of meps shall not exceed 7i urge this house to oppose this proposal .
"madam president , I strongly disagree with the previous speaker ."
let me thank íñigo and the coordinators for taking the decision .
it was not easy .
"what explains , then , such a lack of foresight , such a casual attitude ?"
"however , we must insist that france fulfils its obligations just as its european partners have ."
"this reform will , for its part , have to be achieved by means of a convention ."
"after many years of work and quite serious ratification problems , the treaty of lisbon is finally in force ."
it gives much needed reinforcement to the role of the european parliament .
we must take this opportunity seriously and base our actions on these acquired institutional reforms .
we need to concentrate on progressive decision making for the benefit of all european citizens .
we should not take so much time on administrative matters .
"i am the type of person who is a quick , efficient but good decision maker ."
european citizens rightfully expect us to do our job efficiently and transparently .
this way we can do our job more efficiently .
we will therefore be strengthening the european parliament and doing a great service for european citizens .
i strongly believe that their expertise will give an added value to our institutions .
"he has done an outstanding job in circumstances that were at times fiery , and always exciting ."
i would like to thank him for this .
we should speak out clearly in favour of an election and not selection by a parliament .
thisphantomsituation will certainly not do much for citizensconfidence in the eu .
citizens expect a quick resolution of this matter by the council .
the member states have to ratify a special protocol concerning the additional number of members of the european parliament .
i share the position presented on this matter by the rapporteur .
this is in accord with the fundamental democratic principles upon which the union is based .
"therefore , this revision of protocol no 36 is worthwhile ."
today we are discussing how to get 18 additional meps into the european parliament .
next time we will be discussing possible changes to the electoral vote .
that was a mandate that already existed in the treaties of rome .
"by means of this , we would , it seems to me , remove this type of question mark ."
i agree .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday 6 may 2010 at 11.00 .
written statements rule 149 
i am referring to the human element .
we must not force them to wait any longer .
all of our new fellow members should be chosen in democratic elections .
in writing . we would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent job .
clear steps forward have been taken .
"we believe that the economic governance , the economic government of the union needs to have solid foundations ."
i am certain that the document that the european commission is preparing will refer to this .
we need quality in public finances .
let me address the financial support package for greece endorsed last sunday .
it is important that we acknowledge the courage that prime minister papandreou and his government have shown .
"greece will undertake painful efforts , but we all know that there are no alternatives to such efforts ."
"this is an unprecedented act of solidarity , unmatched anywhere in the world ."
the commission was instrumental in setting it up and will play an important role in its management and implementation .
"the commission is , and will remain , central in assessing greece's compliance with the package's conditionality ."
the commission will also manage the bilateral loans from the member states .
this view is shared by others who matter .
"regrettably , not all market players seem convinced already ."
we have to say loud and clear that the doubters are wrong .
i will come back to this in a moment .
let me say this very clearly discussing and taking decisions at 27 is a source of strength .
there are three main building blocks to be considered .
the case for reinforcement of both the preventive and the corrective arm of the pact is obvious .
"second , interdependence we are all in this together ."
"this includes divergences in their competitiveness , as this is one crucial element that causes other types of imbalances ."
"this cannot , of course , mean that some become less competitive so that others look relatively more competitive ."
we are all competing on world markets .
"what we need is to enhance our overall competitiveness in a balanced , mutually reinforcing way ."
i also believe we need to look at the other causes of imbalances .
"to make progress , we will propose increased surveillance and increased economic policy coordination ."
"third , coherence we have to ask ourselves whether our system of fiscal rules is complete ."
i see merit in creating a permanent mechanism for dealing with disruptive situations .
"after all , it is better to be safe than sorry ."
we cannot have a standstill .
these reforms will be introduced against the background of unprecedented efforts already under way .
the responsibility shown by the governments needs to be matched by financial market players .
one must bear in mind that financial market players are key actors in driving market sentiment .
psychology also matters in markets .
"the financial crisis was born out of short termism , pro cyclicality and a lack of responsibility ."
that is what we must urgently correct .
we need responsible behaviour from all our market players .
we have already been doing a lot as regards financial markets reform .
i count on this house to make this clear to all .
this work must be speeded up .
in the coming weeks we will need to complete the reforms already under way .
i would also like early agreement on effective new european supervisory arrangements .
the european systemic risk board and the three supervisory authorities should start working at the beginning of 20it is high time to deliver these decisions and make sure they are ambitious .
we are also now considering whether further specific measures are needed for sovereign derivatives markets .
the crisis has also once again brought the role of credit rating agencies to the fore .
we must get our own house in order while pushing others to do the same .
the commission will do whatever is necessary to ensure that financial markets are not a playground for speculation .
they must not become detached from their economic and societal function .
"we acted swiftly then , and precisely for that reason , we will also act swiftly in the future ."
we would like to add our voice to the condolences which mr barroso has expressed in his speech .
the events of which mr barroso was speaking took place today in greece .
we have high hopes that the impasse in greece will be broken .
the recent problems there arouse the concern and interest of all members of the european parliament .
i do not think so .
"these answers are not about courting popular opinion , but about being responsible and sensible ."
will this argument be heard by the council ?
will we be able to ensure that it is heard loud and clear ?
"i put the question to mr verhofstadt , who has some experience of this council ."
"does he think it is possible to enter into discussions , together , within the council ?"
will this argument be taken up by the commission ?
"ladies and gentlemen , I am not an idealist ."
we must follow their example they did not wait they did not hold a referendum .
they seized their political courage with both hands to respond to the crucial issues that arose .
we urgently need economic and social governance we urgently need an adaptation of the rules on taxation .
european solidarity applies to every one of the 27 countries .
"i call on you , members of the council , to see europe as it really is ."
what will become of our euro ?
what will we be able to do for our european citizens ?
thank you for your attention .
"we share this responsibility jointly , and time will not stand still for us ."
"i have , here , barry madlener as a speaker ."
i will give you the floor in a few minutes .
i promise you will be able to speak .
we cannot continue to simply play a monitoring role .
the european union must play a part in the reform and support it .
"in order to achieve all of these ambitious objectives , we must first learn to work together ."
we must learn to build and grow strong together .
"secondly , we must equip ourselves with the mechanisms that we need to tackle a crisis ."
"thirdly , we must develop a new concept of european solidarity ."
"the current crisis is an acid test , and we must understand its full significance ."
"fourthly , we need to attach the necessary importance to the financial sphere ."
the future of our continent is at stake .
"the future of europe depends on our intelligence , our solidarity and our firmness ."
this is therefore far more serious and more widespread .
we have no other instrument .
"therefore , this system has to work , and it has to be supported ."
why ?
because this is an intergovernmental system !
"however , a european level initiative is definitely a good idea that must be looked into ."
am I not right in thinking that it was the council that changed the commission's proposals ?
"it will take no time at all to approve them , and financial supervision will be applied ."
it is clear that we have been drifting for four months .
it is clear that we have made mistakes .
"it is clear that , by drifting , we have given impetus to the markets and to speculation ."
those council members who are responsible should at least admit it !
they should say we are to blame ! it is us !
that is my first point .
how much time does france need to reform pensions ?
how much time does germany need to build up pensions ?
"now , mr papandreou is being asked to change everything in three months ."
you are completely crazy .
the events currently taking place in greece prove it .
"greece rather , mr papandreou is not being given the time to achieve a consensus in greece ."
no one identifies with the state in greece .
"what must be created , however , is cohesion ."
"it must be created , it cannot be decreed !"
"mr barroso knows something about this , since he lost elections in this way ."
that is unacceptable !
"besides , europe can take initiatives ."
the treaties must be amended .
let us not wait for the council it is incapable of reaching a decision .
"we can do it yes , we can ."
let us do it .
"there are employment problems , there are employees ."
"in other words , a political initiative between greece and turkey aimed at disarmament ."
let them disarm .
"i will say one thing people are , nonetheless , hypocritical ."
that comes to almost eur 3 billion .
they come to eur 1 billion .
yet this is completely hypocritical .
we are giving them money to buy our weapons .
let there be some transparency at least .
let us know !
germany has 200 000 .
this is completely absurd a country with 11 million inhabitants has 100 000 soldiers !
let us put that to greece .
it may well be more effective than cutting the pay of someone who earns eur 1 000 .
this is my request to the commission be a little fairer .
applause 
"ladies and gentlemen , I share the concern of the european people about current developments ."
"savers and pensioners , for example , are asking themselves where this is heading ."
the question and the concern are both legitimate .
a eur 110 billion package is an enormous amount of money .
"we first talked about 35 billion , then 60 billion , and now 110 billion ."
who would not want that ?
the question is whether or not greece will come out the other end .
"we are now seeing strikes , rebellion , rioting and so on ."
"this makes the greek problem a european problem , our problem ."
we must also rewrite the rules of the stability and growth pact .
"it is providing neither stability nor , at present , economic growth ."
this has been absent in recent years .
suddenly we have a weak euro and a low growth rate .
"ladies and gentlemen , we are held captive by the theory of the ever closer union ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we must , of course , provide assistance to greece ."
"however , the so called rescue operation also has some absurd elements ."
"for years , the financial markets have been increasingly deregulated and now everyone is surprised that it is expensive ."
who will now pay the price for the political errors ?
"the workers , ordinary citizens ?"
banks are not being placed under any obligation .
"once again , dependent workers are to have to accept pay cuts ."
"with the dictates from the international monetary fund , any semblance of a democratic decision making process has been eliminated ."
i believe that is right .
anyone who digs for money or gold should also be responsible for the damage in cases of doubt .
proposals for what could be done are on the table .
"of course , greece must also do its homework ."
mr cohn bendit has already spoken very convincingly about this .
i will therefore omit the facts in this regard and endorse what he said in his speech .
i can understand people in athens going out into the streets and protesting .
what I cannot understand is the violence .
"i agree with everyone who has expressed sympathy for the victims , whose suffering is most regrettable ."
violence will achieve the opposite of what the protesters and honest demonstrators want .
we must call for an end to the violence .
"mr president , thank you very much ."
these are dangerous times .
greece is one of them it is the tip of the iceberg .
they say solidarity is needed .
let me remind you that greece has been the largest net beneficiary of european funds for years .
you should be thoroughly ashamed .
"the country must reintroduce the drachma , as its membership of the euro area is untenable ."
immigration has run riot whilst you have looked on and done nothing .
"el mr president , thank you ."
there is absolutely no excuse for this .
"these people were killed by murderers , by criminals ."
workers held a massive peace rally in athens today .
they did not kill anyone .
i would not like to get involved in a discussion about this .
it is a huge responsibility .
"i was a member of a trade union and an activist , and was very active for many years ."
"thank you for the responsible debate which we have had , today , in this chamber ."
written statements rule 149 
we are experiencing a serious situation .
it seems there are no limits for the leaders of the euro area .
this decision must be changed at the next summit .
europe 2020 new european strategy for jobs and growth debate 
this is the dual challenge contained in the europe 2020 strategy .
"firstly , the structure of the europe 2020 strategy has some integrated guidelines ."
"secondly , we have the main targets , which I referred to before ."
"thirdly , there is something new in the new strategy the national objectives ."
"fifthly , there are theflagship initiativesthat are being developed by the commission ."
i would like to emphasise that the work will of course not be finished in june .
"that is when the europe 2020 strategy will be launched , but the work will not be finished then ."
it will have to be implemented and applied through the national reform programmes .
"president of the commission . madam president , europe has been presented with a stark choice ."
"or we could increase european cooperation in an effective way , using all the tools at our disposal ."
let me touch briefly on most of them .
"the g20 has been instrumental in addressing the financial economic crisis , improving governance on a more global level ."
we have to address globally some of the imbalances that were at the origin of this crisis .
we should also ensure that the burden of rebalancing global growth is shared by all g20 members .
it is important that europe presents a coordinated approach to the ganother objective will be driving on with financial market reform .
we should strive for a coordinated and strong approach .
"a global agreement on bank stability levies , linked to concrete resolution measures , would send a strong signal ."
"as the imf recently suggested , this could be complemented by a tax on financial activities or profits ."
it is going to be an extremely difficult debate .
that will require flexibility and creative pragmatism from both this house and from the council .
we have had several occasions to debate them in this house .
"even before we made a proposal , the commission consulted you about this ."
better coordination of our economic policies is the centre piece of europe 20even before this greek crisis we were suggesting and proposing more coordination of economic policies .
this is clearly necessary in order to avoid future crises .
i am also strongly committed to getting a numerical target on the fight against poverty and social exclusion .
we simply cannot accept the continuing scandal of 80 million people at risk of poverty in the european union .
europe 2020 must be a balanced programme .
"member states are in the process of setting these national targets , in cooperation with the commission ."
the commission issued a proposal on the integrated guidelines last week .
they reflect the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy .
i think this is progress .
that is why we need to close this delivery gap that prevailed under the lisbon strategy .
"if we want to be serious about economic governance , that is the only way to do it ."
this really cannot continue .
"thus , things must be done differently with the eu 2020 strategy ."
parliament will challenge you to do so if need be .
you can count on our support .
it is to be welcomed that the council has set up a task force .
there is no time to lose .
does that link really mean anything in practice ?
how can one think that we would commit ourselves for the next 10 years ?
"is that change , though , mr barroso ?"
we also have to look at where we want to go .
we cannot ignore it .
we cannot consider that strategy without using the tools at our disposal .
"as you well know , mr barroso , we are not as rich as all that ."
"if they are not clearly linked , we will go nowhere ."
"further , when we look at the point of departure , we have some concerns ."
"this is not about greece , or about any other member state ."
this is about a domino effect and about the lack of restrictions on speculation .
this is not our vision of the future .
this is not the time .
"we need real action , and we need it now ."
let me make a comparison .
that is the comparison we have to make .
that is why we are so tough on governance in parliamentary resolutions .
let me take some examples .
we negotiated the economic recovery plan .
most of it is not enforced .
"we have decided on a set plan , new energy technology ."
"we still do not have 50 % of the funding for the set plan , a real strategic tool ."
the most cost effective means to reduce greenhouse gases is to move forward with a strategy for energy efficiency .
the existing legislation must be stepped up because it is not sufficient .
"we need the promised energy efficiency action plan , promised for so long ."
the council has to be bolder and stop bickering .
we will put forward a bold resolution on the second step of the 2020 strategy .
"as regards greece , we are now being forced to take a look in the mirror ."
from the crisis in greece we can see that what has happened up to now is totally inadequate .
our citizens have heard us declare that we are rescuing the banks .
they have gritted their teeth and accepted it .
now they are paying the price .
public finances are already overburdened by these measures .
it will be yet another challenge for the public finances in many countries of the european union .
"in respect of public finances , we cannot carry on the way we have started ."
"in the paper that you presented , I still cannot see a vision of what is to happen now ."
"in that regard , we have not made any progress for many years ."
"for me , climate is the second major issue ."
"if we look at the current situation , it is high time we raised our targets to 30 % ."
what instruments and what incentive programmes are to be used to do this ?
mrs ek mentioned some specific areas .
there is a great deal of work to be done on this programme .
"madam president , I think mr barroso really does have , today , a most difficult role ."
it is one of the most difficult jobs in the european union that he has to do .
mr barroso has to manoeuvre artfully between these propositions .
"i think the best of these is the 2020 strategy , which has been proposed by the commission ."
"there was a ministry of internal trade , but there was no internal trade ."
"i am not , of course , a free market fanatic ."
let us remember what happened to the services directive in this chamber .
there is also no doubt that we must help greece .
"for us poles , whom I represent here , the wordsolidarityhas great significance ."
"we must , therefore , show our solidarity with greece today ."
"i have faith in the future of europe , I believe in our success ."
we have provided no clarification with regard to the future development of the european union .
"this has , of course , given rise to much of the discord that we can now sense ."
"otherwise , we will be heading for disaster with our eyes wide open !"
i feel he would have learned so much from me this evening !
"whenever the people of europe get the chance of a referendum , they reject it ."
the eu is already crumbling .
"however , I have a couple of questions in this regard that give me cause for concern ."
will the proclaimed new strategy suffer a similar fate to its predecessor ?
"sovereignty also means taking responsibility , and consequently taking responsibility for the wrong finance policy ."
"we must show solidarity , of course , but it must not be a one way street ."
centralistic economic governance from brussels dictating the european standard would surely be the wrong way to go .
that is a rather low level from him .
let us stick to all the things we can do together at european level .
that is the best european good governance we can have .
this is also evident in the proposals that we social democrats are responsible for .
we see the situation in the world .
"however , crises can spread ."
it is a dangerous time for all countries .
few countries can count on remaining safe .
"for this reason , we all need to focus on overcoming the crisis and coming up with good proposals ."
"firstly , then , we need to invest in something that will keep demand high ."
it is important for the summit to make clear commitments not to put europe into low energy mode .
it is important to keep demand high and to stimulate investment .
"we need to get the unemployment rate down for women , men , young people and older people ."
"personally , I am very disappointed with the equality sham that the last council presented after its meeting ."
"secondly , we need to start changing into climate smart societies ."
my third point relates to the financial markets .
"we need to , but we do not have the courage ."
what do you say in europe then ?
"that is how we go on , throwing the ball into each other's courts in that way ."
"there are winners in this kind of policy , but there are also many losers ."
that is something we need to have the courage to change in this europe .
the commission is yet to provide an answer in this regard .
we need to give serious consideration to what the 23 million unemployed european citizens will do in future .
"secondly , we should ensure that we have specific targets for combating poverty ."
some people say that they do not like the definition .
to these people I would say that they should not let technicalities stand in the way .
others are saying that we do not have a legal basis in the treaties .
to these people I would say that we have the new treaty of lisbon .
"thirdly , we must work in a consistent manner on a binding employment plan ."
we need to link green investments to new jobs .
we need to re educate and train our workforce to be able to take up these jobs .
"eu 2020 does not yet deliver on these parameters , so we still have work to do ."
"it is far more important than that , colleagues ."
you will receive that next week in conjunction with professor monti's report .
"let us see some fundamental changes in here , both parties ."
it is hardly mentioned in this document .
"it is , therefore , time to evaluate and admit the consequences of the policies that have been followed ."
it is time to prioritise social sustainability .
it is time to put a stop to financial speculation and the domination of the economy by finance .
many mistakes and one defendant in the dock the euro .
we here are a bit tired of hearing the one off excuse the subprime crisis was also a one off .
"however , we cannot blame workers , smallholders or entrepreneurs for this situation ."
that is true .
we therefore also need a strategy for action .
it is more like a reflection put to paper that is now being steamrollered through in a fast tracked procedure .
whether this is the way to avoid the problems that mr barroso has quite rightly described is doubtful .
that is precisely what happened .
"that is not a criticism , either ."
"this would not surprise me , because we cannot achieve a change in this way ."
the standard cannot be the crisis !
the standard must be a forward looking perspective .
"however , we will not actually do it , of course ."
this is the aim of the europe 2020 strategy .
in 10 yearstime will we be more or less united ?
will we be more supportive ?
"what europe needs today is to be united and to take forceful action , not further division ."
"therefore , commissioner , it is most disappointing that 11 countries will not be present on friday ."
of course supervision of the financial markets needs to be increased and of course we need tougher legislation .
"when I heard mr bloom , I was really upset ."
i think mr bloom should apologise to all those people that he has insulted .
"nl mr president , I challenge the commission and the council to make clear choices ."
first of all choose democracy .
secondly work has to be paid work .
"the objective of 75 % employment sounds fine , but europe does not need any more poor workers ."
how does the council actually define employment ?
thirdly choose sound public spending .
fourthly choose a social internal market .
fifthly choose poverty reduction .
"as far as poverty reduction is concerned , the council is aiming only at economic growth ."
"i see no other way to protect our jobs , our social system ."
"what we need is pragmatism , courage and decentralisation ."
"ro sustainable economic growth requires huge , steady investment in the transport sector as well ."
the well coordinated development of the transport sector is crucial to sustainable development and to retaining and creating stable jobs .
"el mr president , thank you very much ."
applause 
"ro during the last two years , we have faced the most severe global economic crisis ."
the strategy's objectives must be realistic .
cs the european union represents the largest geopolitical entity in the world in terms of population .
in this context I consider it key to retain the strategic focus particularly on economic growth and jobs .
is this the europe we want for 2020 ?
the fightback by the greek working class should be supported by workers all over europe .
we have to break the dictatorship of the market .
"they even begin by acknowledging that the previous strategy was not , for various reasons , successful ."
they then set out bold objectives and try to convince people that everything really will be better this time .
"it was not better , however ."
"strategies came and went , and the economy collapsed ."
those strategies failed to respect the basic rules of economic life .
why is this ?
europe 2020 is not our goal .
europe 2020 must be an instrument to enable us to achieve our goals .
"europe 2020 must set in motion specific projects for growth , employment , research , innovation and sustainable competitiveness ."
we should give our full support to mr rehn's measures .
"that is what we need , no more and no less ."
and we are still in the same position .
i also fail to see a tangible desire to identify priorities .
europe's problem is its level of competitiveness in the global system .
"therefore , it cannot disregard social cohesion , one of the fundamental factors of competitiveness ."
this is so that we do not find ourselves in any situation of extreme circumstances .
i am therefore very pleased that the theme of the eu 2020 strategy is now sustainability .
the disadvantage of sustainability is that it is a very general concept that can also lack substance .
we therefore need to make it more specific .
that has been completely lost .
the biodiversity strategy has failed .
climate protection has certainly been tossed about many times .
this is still too vague we need to make it legally binding .
these countries may also lose out as a result of restrictions placed on cohesion policy .
there are many indications that the utopian and socialist 2020 project will share the fate of the lisbon strategy .
"let us hope that , in the meantime , it does not do any more damage ."
"secondly , this is capital investment in transport , energy and telecommunications infrastructures ."
we need capital investment on an unprecedented scale .
"thirdly , this is public expenditure through the european budget ."
"fourthly , this is the coordination of national budget expenditures in priority areas through the open method of coordination ."
"this could undermine investment and business attractiveness of europe , reducing its growth potential ."
eu 2020 must be a growth and jobs strategy because there is no other option .
unemployment is constantly rising .
"already , millions of europeans are jobless , and the figure is rising from one day to the next ."
the guidelines laid down in march by the european council are not up to the task .
"there is no determination , no ambition , but , unfortunately , that does not surprise me any more ."
"however , I have the impression that this is just an umbrella concept to disguise your lack of action ."
then they will see the differences .
"part of europe has , regrettably , experienced communism and we all know what came of that ."
it is simply a question of carrying out this planning .
that is a sensible thing to do .
to think purely within national borders is no longer a successful strategy and is destined to fail .
we therefore need to consider how we can make this european market serve the people .
it is all about this debate .
many fellow members have already gone into the details .
i would like to limit myself to these general statements .
we must clearly establish the sectors in the eu requiring investment in order to provide jobs .
investments in the transport infrastructure are crucial .
this year we are reviewing the list of ten t priority projects .
"it also has to modernise the road infrastructure , ports and airports ."
this is the only way of enabling us to have a really effective internal market .
"first , a certain caution and prudence are justified with respect to quantifiable goals ."
poverty means one thing in the united kingdom and another in bulgaria .
our education systems are different .
"however , I think the improvement of vocational training should in any case be included among our goals ."
i agree that key sectors should receive assistance because they are the engine of the european economy .
without internal cohesion there can be no external competitiveness .
in time everyone would thus become competitive on their own strength .
i hope we will find room for the cohesion policy in the new strategy .
ro I firmly believe that europe 2020 will create a more economically powerful and more innovative europe .
i welcome the efforts made by the commission to present this communication to us .
interdependence among economies shows the need for cohesion and ensuring [ . ]
the president cut off the speaker 
i am honestly sorry that we did not hear condolences from president barroso on behalf of the commission .
"i hope that mr rehn , who represents him , will rectify this in his second statement ."
2020 is based on 20the objective of less poverty is based on today .
think about it and act now .
de thank you very much mr president .
he will now miss one of the most important measures .
this requires a comprehensive initiative for these potential green jobs .
it was with great sadness that I learnt of the deaths in greece it is very sad .
we have seen problems in greece .
"in contradistinction to the lisbon strategy , we need boldness and consistency in the implementation of europe 20today , 30 % of europeans do not have vocational qualifications ."
i appeal for coordinated and very consistent action from all eu institutions and member states .
we are talking about sustainability in the environmental sense .
we know that forced growth and globalisation have dreadful consequences for the environment .
there is no question of sustainability .
we are talking about sustainability in the social sense .
this is completely contrary to sustainability in the social sense .
my electorate and myself are of the opinion that between the two value systems we have to choose sustainability .
"mr president , I would like to start by answering the direct question put to me by mr bokros ."
others have also referred to it .
why did the lisbon strategy fail ?
this was the direct question asked by mr bokros .
that step has not been taken .
the treaty of maastricht talked about economic and monetary union .
we have remained in monetary union and have not moved on to economic union .
"this economic union means , most importantly , economic and social governance of the union ."
that is not all .
"this would answer the question from mrs harms , who is not currently present ."
it is also something that the treaty of lisbon requires us to do .
"i am referring to what mr barroso said , which I almost completely agree with ."
"this phase is that of globalisation , which is economic union ."
"not just the internal market or monetary union , but also economic union ."
i think this is what the european people are asking of all of us .
he did express his condolences on behalf of the commission .
"disagreement in democracy is normal , but recourse to violence is never acceptable ."
it was the responsible and right thing to do .
financial stability is necessary for europe's ongoing economic recovery for sustainable growth and job creation .
"all euro area member states are taking measures to consolidate their public finances , not least portugal and spain ."
"greece is a unique and particular case in the euro area , and now the european union ."
i am confident that we will succeed and overcome the formidable challenges .
we must also learn the lessons of the crisis that is important for economic governance of europe 20in the economic and monetary union themhas been much stronger than thee.
it is high time to fill theewith life .
this was also the underlying idea of the founding fathers of the economic and monetary union .
the main building blocks of our proposals are threefold .
"firstly , we need to reinforce the stability and growth pact , both its preventive and corrective arms ."
"secondly , we must go beyond budgetary surveillance ."
the third building block will be a crisis resolution mechanism .
the financial mechanism for greece serves the immediate need for the current purposes .
"in conclusion , I count on your support ."
i count on the european parliament to support reinforcing economic governance in europe .
why so ?
that is what our citizens are expecting from us .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place during the second part session in may .
the sitting was suspended for five minutes due to technical issues 
written statements rule 149 
such a renewal may be brought about in the european union by innovation and by research and development .
"innovation is only possible as a result of partnership , of joint support ."
"resources come from three areas the eu , member states and the private sector ."
innovation at company level requires appropriate human resources .
"this can be achieved by high quality education and training , operated through coordination at member state level ."
"in education , the two main trends that comprise innovative opportunities are digitisation and the decrease of energy consumption ."
"however , fine statements are not sufficient to resolve current problems ."
member states must be proactive in keeping to the commitments they have assumed within the european council .
a top down and bottom up approach have to meet each other .
"realistic benchmarks have to be set to increase employment , especially youth employability ."
better coherence needs to be created between the labour market and education .
the concept of life long and life wide learning are to be tackled seriously .
"in the increasingly competitive world , europe needs to be ambitious and committed on all levels ."
without this we will again have a strategy that resembles more the soviet union's five year plans .
a convincing european strategy to create a stronger europe should take leadership on global level .
a longer lifespan does not in itself mean a longer productive career .
this would also benefit younger but disabled people .
i ask that the european institutions consider this in their strategy and its implementation .
it goes without saying that creating a suitable infrastructure must be a priority .
i wish to stress the significance of implementing the symbolicyouth on the moveinitiative .
the quality of education in european schools and universities must rise in keeping with the labour market's requirements .
"unfortunately , the economic and financial crisis has dovetailed with the end of the lisbon agenda ."
the lesson learnt will perhaps stand us in good stead for implementing the forthcoming eu 2020 strategy .
it would result in the failure of the cohesion principle at european level .
"despite the commission's praiseworthy work on drawing up the strategy , it amazes me with its naivety ."
"what we need today is not dreams , but concrete actions to save the european economy from decline ."
having a quantitative target for reducing poverty is problematic .
"women , people aged over 45 and young people continue to have the most difficulty in finding work ."
it is hard to believe that romania will be able to achieve this target by 20its potential is far greater .
"development , however , must not mean merely aiding those european regions that already perform above average ."
"we should , instead , focus the major part of development on supporting the most underdeveloped and disadvantaged regions ."
there are still enormous differences between eastern and western europe in terms of economic efficiency .
the best stewards of the european countryside are the agricultural producers themselves .
"the eu 2020 strategy cannot succeed without the cohesion policy , either ."
with the tools of the cohesion policy we are able to help reach goals in any specific field .
ten years have passed since the lisbon strategy was adopted and the majority of its objectives remain unfulfilled .
the commission must take the driving seat and lead this process .
but for it to succeed there must be solidarity among the citizens of europe .
the europe 2020 strategy should be a strategy for catching up and convergence .
the transport sector generates about 10 % of the european union's gdp and provides over 10 million jobs .
"in my opinion , the matter of rail transport should be tackled decisively and quickly ."
i am sure that we can enlarge the trans european railway corridor network by 20the sitting is resumed .
it was the result of violent acts that we absolutely and categorically condemn .
the culmination of this is in the treaty of lisbon .
"from that time , the council has done everything possible to speed up the debates on the negotiation mandate ."
in many cases it goes beyond .
"then , fourthly , the accession of the eu to the convention ."
by mid march the commission had proposed a negotiation mandate to the council .
i just want to mention two of them .
now the commission is seeking a smooth insertion of the european union into the system of the convention .
the accession should therefore preserve the substantive and procedural features of that system .
"however , the accession must meet two requirements ."
i know that the spanish presidency is doing everything in order to bring these discussions forward .
among these is the so calledco respondent mechanism.
it is of particular importance to take account of the decentralised implementation of union law by member states .
i am also happy that the spanish presidency of the council gave high priority to this file .
i am therefore confident that we will be able to start the negotiations on accession after the summer .
"these minimum guarantees are part of the umbilical cord , the historical process of european integration ."
this is what we are going to adopt now .
now there is a legal basis for the accession becoming a reality .
we can all be pleased about that .
this will guarantee the independent external monitoring of the eu's respect for people's fundamental rights and freedoms .
it is a very important step .
"regrettably , it is also the case that we in this house stand by and allow this to happen ."
just today I spoke to some moroccan members of parliament .
it has achieved this status both in european law and in policy sectors in individual member states .
"in this way , the european court of human rights will gain significant jurisdiction over eu institutions ."
"at the same time , the question of reforming the operation of both important european courts should be considered ."
the situation is as follows .
"this opportunity , as everyone knows , is available now to all citizens of the european union ."
this document is among the most progressive documents in the field of fundamental rights .
the convention reinforces the charter and the charter supplements the convention .
"since december , the treaty of lisbon commits the eu to join the convention on human rights ."
therefore our objective must be to ensure that implementation is as successful as possible .
"at the same time , several questions need to be clarified during the negotiations ."
one of these substantial issues is the relationship between the courts .
it is also a precondition that internal legal remedies be fully exhausted first .
i believe that this is a very important moment and that we are on the right path .
"pl mr president , the european union is founded upon respect for human rights ."
"it is , in fact , one of the finest aspects of the institution ."
it is just that I have the impression we are building these human rights exclusively for our own citizens .
mrs beňová and mrs wikström have spoken about this .
it is my conviction that the european union lacks commitment in this area .
"it should be borne in mind that when creating new rights , other freedoms should not be curtailed ."
es thank you very much for the very hard but necessary work that you have done .
so then the question arises why do we need accession to the convention ?
"this question has been posed by our colleagues here and , yes , we do need it ."
why do we need it ?
we postulate this and we should do our utmost to put it into law .
"finally , I would like to thank very much the commission for setting up a dg on human rights ."
i remember as a student reading joseph weiler's articles about the protection of human rights .
"so finally , thanks to you , we have it ."
this fact is all the more important as member states have transferred important powers to the european union .
romania signed the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in 199i would also reinforce what mr sógor mentioned .
"this , let us not forget , was the main direction of the european union project ."
this lay at the basis of the establishment of the european union in terms of values .
i would like to give a very relevant example .
this is a bizarre and downright scandalous situation .
i would like to ask the following question will accession to the framework convention change anything ?
it is time such cases of discrimination did not take place in member states of the european union .
i would like to refer to both of these speeches and answer them both specifically .
it is clear that it does not change the competences or powers of the union's institutions .
there is no problem .
"the european union not only has competences , but what is more , it has increased them ."
protocols have since been added to it over time .
we therefore feel it is entirely justified for the european union to sign this convention .
i will not repeat it because I would say exactly the same .
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
i could cite quite a few recent examples of that .
that is a pernicious development and one that reinforces the european union's democratic deficit .
how should the matter of representation of the union in the bodies of the council of europe be solved ?
"today , these are mainly economic migrants ."
are we trying to stipulate their reception via a circuitous route ?
"in general , our failed integration policy of the last few decades is rebounding on us ."
"in particular , the retention of data will probably be incompatible with the echr , too ."
i believe that the answer to this is as follows .
accession provides an additional external check at eu level in terms of respecting rights .
"finally , accession provides the eu with additional credibility in its foreign relations ."
"on the other hand , we must be aware that there are a number of questions expecting an answer ."
which area is covered by accession ?
just the convention or its additional protocols as well ?
what forms of representation will the eu use in the convention's bodies ?
what role will parliament play in appointing the eu judge to the echr ?
i firmly believe that all these questions will be answered soon .
europe still does not have an effective system for the protection of human rights .
the number of cases increases significantly from year to year .
the member states are not in a hurry to recognise the judgments of the court .
"if they did this quickly and effectively , there would be a decided reduction in complaints ."
conformity of legal acts with the text of the convention will come under the supervision of the court .
"in relation to this , the decisions of the court should also find expression in eu policy ."
electric cars debate 
the next item is the council and commission statements on electric cars .
"although the recovery is small , ultimately it is recovery , and in particular it must mean industrial activity ."
we therefore need to back european industry .
it was therefore agreed to invite the european commission to draw up an action plan .
i shall end with a question to mr tajani .
the commission tends to refer to cleanly propelled vehicles generically .
however electric propulsion technology is the most developed .
"the manufacturers have a large variety of models , and they are soon going to begin marketing them ."
electromobility must play a key role in future .
"however , as we all know , we are still a long way from achieving comprehensive electromobility ."
"the following points are crucial , however ."
the united states and china are working jointly on conductive charge couplers .
we must not lag behind in this regard .
we ought to lead the way and should not allow european vanity to take hold .
"are the french quicker , or the germans or the spaniards ?"
we should all pull together and the commission should certainly take the lead in this .
"we need to develop cost effective , high performance batteries ."
"secondly , we need to extend network infrastructure coverage to all areas ."
"citizens must be able to use electromobility across borders , otherwise they will not use this form of transport ."
"thirdly , we must also take electric cars into account in our co2 emissions calculations ."
car manufacturers that are currently carrying out fleet calculations cannot yet include electric cars .
we need to be able to take these into account in future .
"fourthly , we must provide tax relief on electric cars throughout europe ."
"this applies to batteries in particular , which are still the most expensive part ."
"we need to carry out research in this regard , but we also need to harmonise our taxes ."
"avoiding , switching and improving are therefore the order of the day ."
we need to find the most environmentally friendly propulsion technology for vehicles .
"electric vehicles include trains , trams , buses , cars and bicycles ."
only then shall we in the group of the greens / european free alliance be able to support electromobility .
replacing the current car fleet with electric cars will neither resolve the problem of congestion nor protect the climate .
"at most , electric cars solve the emissions problem ."
the area of land used alone is immense .
it is currently 117 hectares a day .
"therefore , the number of cars must be reduced ."
"if that turns out to be electromobility , we shall need european and international standardisation ."
the greens will vote in favour of this resolution .
"however , most of you do not know that in prague I ride an electric bicycle ."
i am not an environmental extremist .
"in my opinion , this is how we should approach the issue of standardising electric vehicles ."
there will certainly be more room for discussion there .
"more than at other times , europe today needs to be competitive and needs innovation ."
"however , standards are only one of the instruments for helping industry ."
pressure for innovation should come not from regulations but from demand .
"if they are developed to order , then the vehicles will be unacceptably expensive and nobody will buy them ."
"by the way , the electric bicycle I ride was made in china ."
many of the issues that I wanted to mention have already been raised here .
"there are , however , two points that appear to be absolutely fundamental to me ."
it has to be much more extensive otherwise we will not solve the problem .
nothing much has changed since then .
a car is available in any model as long as it is environmentally friendly .
"i have nothing against environmental friendliness , but these days the environment has been rendered unaffordable by leftist politicians ."
we now want a standardised electric car in the european union .
"besides , an electric car is useless at the moment ."
the batteries and their life are still far too limited and contain extremely harmful substances .
"we therefore do not want any european standardisation of the electric car , not now , not ever ."
i will single out three priorities from your action plan .
"first of all , the employees themselves ."
i stress this particular issue to you .
"secondly , commissioner and president , the vehicles of the future and , in particular , electric batteries ."
"this issue has already been mentioned here , but it cannot be overstated ."
there is some reshuffling to be done there and we need to place an emphasis on this .
"thirdly , the charging infrastructure ."
"otherwise , we will get bogged down in a fragmented market ."
it is not too late to avoid that .
may I first of all compliment the commission on having adopted a technology neutral approach .
the technology will choose itself .
the standards will be available only in 2012 and will perhaps begin to apply as late as 20might I suggest that you do your best to speed that up ?
you have not mentioned smart meters in cars at all and yet you have talked about smart charging .
standardisation of vehicles and ensuring their universal operability in the european market is essential .
i am also grateful to commissioner tajani for the points he made .
"it is particularly important to support new technologies , when the challenge is to have a low carbon economy ."
"pt mr president , I welcome the recent communication on clean and efficient vehicles ."
the arrival of electric cars on the market could represent a competitive advantage for european industry .
"it is also important that tax incentives be created , with appropriate electricity prices for consumers ."
another essential factor will be the modernisation of electricity grids .
"energy must be renewable and we need raw materials , so trade is also affected ."
"now , the electric car is a fine flagship ."
europe has a tradition and a reputation when it comes to quality .
these mayors came up with the idea of smart cities .
"in that context , the standardisation of batteries , charging points etc. is indeed of major importance ."
"my country , the netherlands , has made a choice ."
we have saidyesto a german plug .
"now , that is european thinking and together we are going ahead with mennekessix pole plug ."
we actually need to follow that line of thinking and link up our best technologies .
i have two more points .
"first of all , we lack a proper communications strategy ."
"people will not be turning up for the elections , and what can europe do about that ?"
"in fact , this is something worthy of an e european designation european electric ."
the electric car project dates back to 2006 all the institutions agree that it is a valid project .
alternative fuel vehicles are a winning idea the fact that their market share almost doubled in 2008 proves it .
"however , they still account for only 1.3 % of all vehicles registered ."
"put briefly , in urban conditions these vehicles are too quiet ."
we still have a large number of items on the agenda .
obviously I will be even handed in my treatment of the different political groups .
let me explain myself better .
ro road transport is responsible for 28 % of the pollutant emissions generated by non ets sectors .
these vehicles are particularly suited to urban driving .
"in this respect , standardisation of electric vehicles becomes vital ."
"these vehicles are , however , an important alternative that must be given due consideration , despite these problems ."
"nevertheless , they will never come close to replacing all the current , fossil fuel powered vehicles ."
the car based society as we know it today has thus been given a suspended sentence .
"while the european commission investigates , ponders and makes preparations , our japanese friends are hard at work ."
"es mr president , europe 2020 and the electric car ."
innovation and competitiveness are in themselves knowledge .
"they include mrs riera , mrs del castillo , mr cramer and mrs matias ."
mrs bilbao has just referred to the regions as a key element in the development of electric vehicles .
i am convinced that the european union has to take all these factors into consideration in the future .
"speaking of advantages , I believe that there are two key aspects of electric vehicles which offer considerable advantages ."
one is technology and the other energy .
"as far as technology goes , electric vehicle technology already exists ."
it is working now .
i think that it is very important to take his views into account .
"what is more , the technology used by electric vehicles is the most efficient and best for the environment ."
"electric vehicles help renewable energies , which have a weak spot they are irregular ."
electric vehicles compensate for this irregularity through their own special features .
"furthermore , they also contribute as far as energy security is concerned ."
electric cars are an important resource that have already gained broad support and obtained positive results .
"many member states , in fact , are choosing them ."
"of course , it takes a great deal of work to produce a competitive electric car ."
"she raised the issue of lithium , along with other meps who have spoken about batteries during this debate ."
i believe that europe has a strategy .
there is also the option not to buy electric cars no one is forcing europeans to buy them .
we are more competitive if we focus on innovation and research .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
written statements rule 149 
"however , their development must be included as part of a future policy on sustainable mobility ."
romania would like to introduce electric cars gradually on its domestic market .
"in this respect , the commission must provide financial support to member states ."
green cars offer significant benefits .
this is why I believe that we must encourage the use of electric cars .
in writing . ro using electric vehicles offers a number of major benefits for sustainable mobility .
"developing electric vehicles across europe to replace conventional vehicles is a viable solution , with increased market potential ."
one minute speeches on matters of political importance
the next item is one minute speeches under rule 1i hope that this initiative will be welcomed by the majority of this house .
what did the spanish presidency do ?
did it hold any meetings with the observatory ?
did it really support the european bid ?
"europeans from la palma , the canaries and the rest of europe are waiting for answers on this ."
at the moment they are left with the conviction that not everything was done that could have been done .
this is exactly what is in the process of happening in romania too .
the government is discussing at the moment increasing the flat income tax rate and vat .
the impact of such measures is extremely damaging to the economy in the medium and long term .
"regrettably , the european union is finding it difficult to develop a common strategy against the economic crisis ."
their struggle is there to demonstrate this .
"we here salute the courage and determination of those in greece , in portugal and in several other countries ."
this cannot be right .
we escaped thanks to the bundesbank's refusal to prop up sterling .
tough love does work .
"whilst it remains in the eurozone , greece has no way out ."
free the greeks from the shackles of the euro .
do not make the greek people pay the price for the unattainable ambition of an eu superstate !
"de mr president , I would like to talk today about the subject of air safety ."
this topic has occupied us a great deal in the last few weeks and it has affected us all .
human life is more important than any economic gain .
"test flights have been undertaken , but the evaluation is taking time ."
"experts have been consulted , but their responses do not point conclusively in any particular direction ."
these scandalous measures are intensifying .
eighty per cent of the region's population are poles .
we take pride in the fact that human rights are the foundation of the union .
it is a poor foundation if we are unable to enforce these rights in member states .
these measures are neither new nor temporary .
they are a blatant application of capitalist development which leads to crisis .
the solution is to nationalise the monopolies and give power to the people .
we believe that the greek people will win their fight .
"they have been 120 years of brilliant advances , of painful setbacks and of tenacious resistance by workers ."
consideration must be given to these struggles and the worsening of exploitation must stop .
it is time to respect the dignity of those who work and create wealth .
"mr president , I wish to draw the house's attention to a matter of very serious urgency ."
many observers believe he was murdered .
"this is very much out of character for someone who came from a loving , caring and apolitical family ."
"however , the real issue here is that the information coming from the bolivian authorities cannot be trusted ."
bg I must draw your attention to a problem in my country .
"in the wake of the elections , hundreds of representatives of the opposition were sacked for political reasons ."
pressure has been exerted on the main media .
politicians are being arrested in a brutal and blatant manner or ridiculous charges are being made .
"arrangements are being made to set up an extraordinary court , officially called aspecialised court."
fear is spreading .
for years on end bulgaria was required to make greater efforts in the fight against crime .
"the european parliament is sensitive to the violation of democracy , freedom and human rights around the world ."
it also needs to be just as sensitive when this is happening in member states .
jobbik believes that it is possible to rid political life of corruption .
"lv thank you , mr president ."
"on 8 may , europe celebrates victory over nazism ."
"however , ladies and gentlemen , I have some unpleasant news ."
"for 20 years now , we in the opposition have not been able to do anything about it ."
the leaders of european states pretend that nothing is going on .
"today , however , they are commemorated as heroes in latvia ."
this is extremely important .
thank you .
"mr president , history has shown us that crises can generate progress ."
i would like to highlight two such ideas that could result in meaningful instruments .
we can all bet on the fact that the future will bring new crises .
they want us to agree at the mexico conference to legally binding reductions in our emissions .
they are right .
we cannot put off this decision any longer .
the european union must immediately and officially commit to a 30 % reduction in emissions by 20we can also do much more in parliament .
a 30 % reduction in the european parliament's footprint by 2020 has already been agreed .
we need to set an example to the member states by reducing our footprint by 50 % .
the irregularity rate for the eu funds paid out has never been as low as in this year .
the area of cohesion alone leaves a great deal to be desired .
more effort needs to be made particularly in this area in the future .
the area of agriculture and natural resources needs to be highlighted in particular .
the irregularity rate in this area was below 2 % and was therefore very clearly in the green zone .
the monitoring and control systems are effective .
an increase in the funds for turkey is highly questionable in view of the lack of measureable criteria .
it is unacceptable to give eu funds to third countries without any established indicators .
direct control of the payments and how the funds are used is essential .
only then can the aid actually have the desired effect .
"pl mr president , a camouflaged form of human trafficking is flourishing in poland ."
"this is happening because of the absolute priority of the liberal , anti humanitarian law of the market ."
"under pressure from rocketing rents , they fall into debt and are often evicted ."
fundamental human rights are being violated .
urgent aid from public funds is also necessary to help the victims of anti humanitarian privatisation .
"bg thank you , mr president ."
i am taking the floor so that I can expose an injustice .
that concludes this item .
motor vehicle block exemption regulation debate 
the next item is the debate on 
"as you know , block exemption regulations are very important instruments to the business community ."
this regulation was adopted in 200this regulation will expire on 31 may 20parliament is concerned about this reform .
there is also a need to ensure that the small and medium sized players in this market enjoy favourable conditions .
we cannot forget the importance of smes as job providers and as suppliers of proximity .
are there players with a simple or collective dominant position ?
i think the dealers would say that this has actually worked rather well over that time .
what do we have now ?
i think you need to look at this .
there is nothing in your analysis whatsoever that has picked up any of that .
we now have mr tajani's paper .
the college of commissioners has placed this issue on the agenda of our meeting of 26 may .
"the public consultation process started in june 200a number of debates , workshops and initiatives have also taken place , including here in parliament ."
the latest took place on 12 april this year at the econ committee .
what are the main conclusions of this long consultation process ?
"first , we learned something positive that consumers in europe enjoy vigorous competition in the car sales market ."
"this consolidation period did not materialise , and instead what we have today is a very competitive market ."
"by reducing those costs , manufacturers will improve their competitive position , with resulting benefits for consumers ."
let me stress that multi branding exists and will continue to exist where market reality calls for it .
"what we have observed is that carmakers have increasingly resorted to other forms of distribution , including manufacturer owned outlets ."
to do so would be intrusive .
we have to be proportionate when we interfere in how markets work .
this will result in better quality repair services and lower prices .
"to conclude , I strongly believe the new framework will be more favourable to consumers ."
"mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we have now heard a great deal ."
"however , we have not received a response ."
"hopefully , we shall in future see an equally positive development on the after sales market ."
this should be continually monitored .
it is an absolutely essential process .
there is an undeniable phenomenon of predominance of large car manufacturers .
our citizens must be guaranteed the right to choose both car parts and independent service stations .
guarantees of access to technical information are needed .
we must take action to counter the abuse of guarantees by producers .
"commissioner , competition is not an end in itself ."
"this includes , firstly , genuine authorisation for multi branding ."
it includes allowing workshops and dealerships to have unrestricted access to information on vehicles and repair options .
"thirdly , it includes providing the necessary opportunities for gaining qualifications ."
we talked earlier about electromobility .
they also need to be in a position to maintain electric cars .
"fourthly , they need investment security , in other words contractual protection and no more revisions ."
they need to be able to make safe investments over a long period .
"fr mr president , commissioner , let us talk about the reality of car dealers ."
regulation ec no 1400 / 2002 reduced this discrepancy .
"in any case , commissioner , it is not competition that is at stake here ."
competition would increase between car manufacturers and not between dealers or between dealers and manufacturers .
local garage owners cannot pose a threat to free competition in europe .
"you talk about market domination , potential domination ."
"let us talk about it , then !"
this domination does not exist in the case of competing manufacturers .
it does not exist in respect of other producers .
the position and the reasoning behind the abolition of the exemption regulation are misguided .
they are wrong they are aimed at the wrong people .
"the population of finland is five million , and around 100 000 cars will be sold this year ."
i can only repeat the plea that I made to the president of the commission back in spring 200we have the problem of different national regulations if only single branding remains .
we are opposed to a non mandatory code of conduct and in favour of an efficient enforcement mechanism .
the guidelines are not clear enough to ensure that there is access to technical information as there was before .
"please stand up for small and medium sized enterprises , too ."
multi branding is part of competition and helps to protect consumers .
we want more competition .
restricting the options of small and medium sized enterprises and car dealers will reduce competition .
we need a strong distribution system .
small distributors employ a lot of people .
competition must work .
this was brought home very clearly to me two weeks ago when the volcanic ash struck .
most of these are family owned enterprises in local towns and local villages .
"on the other hand , however , I can see the objective limits to absolute freedom in this area ."
specialisation and a balanced relationship with the producer are also the best way forward for the customer .
the aim of any regulation or decision regarding competition is to benefit the consumer .
"that is the objective , our central concern and principal aim of our regulation ."
they can probably do it more easily now than at any time in the past .
the current proposal by the commission improves all of that .
all that is improved .
"in all these respects , the future regulation will give consumers more benefits than the current one ."
small and medium sized enterprises what has happened there ?
"i mean everybody's opinions , including yours , of course ."
what has happened to small dealers in recent years ?
have they increased or declined in number ?
it has been mostly the latter .
that is the truth of it .
that is what we wish to rectify .
what has been happening up until now or is still happening with certain garages and certain spare parts manufacturers ?
they have problems which will disappear under the new regulation and the new guidelines .
not all dealers share the same interests .
"finally , the deadlines for cancellation ."
i therefore share your concerns .
"it is important to listen to people's views , but it is also important to learn from experience ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
written statements rule 149 
"buying a car is often the biggest expenditure households in the european union have , after buying a house ."
this regulation brought in advantageous operating conditions which strengthened competition in the automotive market .
i was all the more pleased to hear that the european commission has decided to prolong this regulation .
commission communication on action against cancer european partnership debate 
it is important to note that action is already underway .
"the second key word in the report is inequality , and several types of inequality at that ."
"differences exist in the acquisition of cancer data , too ."
the exchange of good practice would be unimaginable without encouragement from community institutions .
the third key word in the report is partnership .
a close relationship between doctor and patient is not enough .
"on this occasion , I would like to place particular emphasis on the issue of rehabilitation of cancer patients ."
we ought to pay a great deal more attention to people who have beaten cancer .
a key element in the fight against cancer in europe today is proximity to the citizens .
"strong action at european level can have an important knock on effect at national , regional and local level ."
this underlines the potential of the european partnership for action against cancer .
the success of the partnership largely depends on the active participation of its numerous and diverse partners .
i sincerely hope that it will .
the broad aim is to achieve more long term goals and to make better use of available resources .
this depends on the commitment of all partners and of course on adequate financial input .
"by the end of the partnership , the objective is for all member states to have integrated cancer plans ."
some actions will build on the result of the good work done so far .
other actions will require additional help .
the commission stands ready to provide all the necessary support .
i share the concerns and anxieties expressed in the european commission communication and in the draft report .
i hope that the commission will play its role and make sure the partnership delivers its objectives .
i believe this could definitely strengthen the expertise and recommendations .
"cancer is a horrific disease , a disease about which , at its worst , nothing can be done ."
"fortunately , however , we can do something ."
"the older the population , the more cases of cancer can be expected ."
that is why all member states have to do their utmost to pursue an effective and socially focused health policy .
another point about which we can do something is the large number of carcinogenic substances in the environment .
the interests of citizens and the health of citizens is paramount !
"stress , lifestyle , chemicals and viruses can also cause cancer ."
"this year , almost two million european citizens are expected to die of this disease ."
"thus , cancer does not stop at national borders ."
i have two questions .
where does the commission stand with regard to research ?
the commission points out that the screening volume is low in relation to the council's recommendation .
therefore my second question is how will the ambitious target be converted into real patients in our countries ?
can we realistically double the effectiveness of our screening throughout europe ?
"pt mr president , commissioner , the fight against cancer must be a priority ."
almost 30 % of cancers can be avoided and their consequences alleviated through early detection and treatment .
some types of cancer affect women and men differently .
"every year , 50 000 european women are diagnosed with cervical cancer and 25 000 die from this disease ."
"nevertheless , cervical cancer can be practically eliminated by making vaccination and scanning programmes widely available ."
i therefore welcome this initiative by the commission .
ro I too would like to thank the rapporteur for the fine job he has done .
the european commission must allocate funds for research in this area .
"the family should be a place of relief , support and encouragement for its members ."
"we must , of course , address the plague of cancer ."
cancer is caused by many factors .
"cancer is a global problem that continues to persist , despite medical advances ."
"in the eu , around 3.2 million people develop cancer each year ."
"the main types of cancer are lung , bowel and breast cancer ."
"screening , particularly as we get older , also plays an important part in maintaining health ."
the principle that prevention is better than cure has proven to be true here .
the most cost effective strategy with the best prospects of success is screening .
the statistic which shows that one in every three people may get cancer would terrify anyone .
"at the same time , professors , nurses and doctors who deal with this disease have made great progress ."
"in the future , however , it will be important to spend more money , particularly on research ."
"i wish them all the best , and my thoughts are with them ."
"therefore , we should increase our efforts to ensure that these high environmental standards are maintained ."
we must also keep stressing the importance of research .
this is something we must especially ensure accessibility to medicines that come onto the market .
i would like to thank you once again .
"i offer my services to the commissioner for close cooperation in the future , too ."
i think that our cooperation so far has been exemplary and that together we can achieve a lot more .
thank you and I wish you all a good night .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
written statements rule 149 
i fully support the approach of the rapporteur who places a special emphasis on the preventive action .
in this perspective I strongly believe that comprehensive national cancer plans are more than welcome .
i would also favour the cooperation on this topic in the field of research .
this is absolutely necessary for an effective preventive action .
"of course , prevention can't be done without a proper level of financial resources ."
the effort is global .
at present cancer is the second biggest cause of death and illness in europe .
more cooperation and resources for the study of cancer and preventive treatment are very important .
member states need to take carcinogenic chemicals off the market and replace them with harmless ones .
"preventive screening is necessary and effective , and adequate sums of money must be set aside for this ."
information campaigns should also be focused on educational institutions .
parsimony today may lead to all kinds of expenses tomorrow .
only through collective effort can we achieve success in fighting an enemy like cancer .
"mobilising information and communication technologies to facilitate the transition to an energy efficient , low carbon economy debate "
"they enriched the initial report and our work with many suggestions , additions and amendments ."
how can icts make this major contribution to transforming our economy ?
"next , they can make an enormous contribution in the major sectors , in the housing and transport sectors ."
"this is , therefore , highly significant ."
a common measurement framework for the ict industry's own emissions is also essential .
this must be taken into account in considering the beneficial impact of ict used .
let me mention a few that address concerns raised in your report .
in february 2010 the ict for energy efficiency forum was launched .
"the forum brings together leading eu , japanese and us high tech industry associations ."
major european cities have signed up to the green digital charter .
the total number of cities committed to the green digital charter has increased from 14 to work with the commission's smart grids task force is also advancing .
a set of recommendations is expected by the end of 20the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
protection of the communitiesfinancial interests fight against fraud annual report 2008 debate 
hence the report that we are presenting is the result of a highly coordinated effort .
the fall concerns all spending areas except direct expenditure and pre accession funds .
areas of major concern still exist in relation to the structural funds too .
our analyses and meetings over recent months have led us to prioritise two requirements .
"secondly , reducing the number of irregularities and significantly improving the regulations ."
"we are embarking on a legislative and regulatory simplification programme , intended in particular for the structural funds ."
"moreover , the fight against corruption , financial crime and breaches of public procurement rules must be stepped up ."
in this year's report we have made progress on this point with the support of the entire committee .
"thanks to an intense , concerted effort , proposals have been drafted on the main problems in this area ."
the protection of the european union's financial interests is a priority for the romanian government as well .
"as part of this , the fight against fraud department was set up ."
it provides the single point of contact in romania with olaf for european funds .
i agree totally with every effort made to fight fraud .
let me just make a couple of remarks .
the structural funds is an area of particular concern both for the parliament and the commission .
considerable progress has been achieved concerning transparency about the beneficiaries of eu funds .
i come now to olaf .
i thank the rapporteur for the strong support he explicitly states for the work of olaf .
in 2008 olaf revised the financial follow up procedures relating to olaf cases by establishing de minimis thresholds .
olaf and ias have been cooperating closely since 200olaf is willing to cooperate still more closely with the ias .
more detailed rules on procedural rights will be included in the legislative proposal for revision of the olaf regulation .
commissioner šemeta looks forward to presenting this paper to the committee on budgetary control at its meeting in july .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow .
written statements rule 149 
the fight against fraud is a crucial challenge that the european union and the member states must take up .
the credibility of the structural funds among europeans is at stake .
"as the rapporteur points out , the financial impact of irregularities on structural actions has decreased significantly ."
it is important for the commission and the member states to continue this fight as rigorously as possible .
"however , it is also essential not to discourage potential beneficiaries of the structural funds with overly harsh restrictions ."
intentional fraud is one thing a lack of precision when organising projects is quite another .
entire national economies could be threatened if crisis management is not handled appropriately and on a european level .
because of this we can only welcome the rapporteur's intention to increase the accountability of member states .
today this is one of the key issues for successful crisis management .
in writing . de the report on the fight against fraud indicates a fundamentally positive development .
from 2007 to 2008 there was a reduction in the negative financial effects of irregularities in all sectors .
"however , this was not the case with regard to pre accession aid ."
here the negative effects have increased by 90.6 % .
"for the period 2007 to 2013 , turkey will receive the sum of eur 4.84 billion ."
the money is continuing to flow nevertheless and in ever higher amounts .
"without a clear strategy , money is being used with no specific plan and in an unconstructive way ."
we must put an end to this madness .
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
kyrgyzstan motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
european investment bank eib annual report 2008 debate 
this is the title of our current agenda item .
the treaty of lisbon came into force six months ago .
"finally , I would like to draw your attention to two issues ."
it is important to support programmes that help balance the infrastructural standards within the eu .
thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate with interest .
this is the continuation of a tradition begun a few years ago .
i welcome this excellent cooperation with parliament .
this increase mainly concerned the three sectors that the council and parliament had told us were priorities .
"thus we have never before lent so much to countries such as hungary , lithuania and romania ."
last year we lent more than eur 12 billion to the banks for small and medium sized enterprises .
the third area that we were asked to prioritise is the fight against climate change .
the second major challenge that we face is the renewal of the eib's external mandates .
we will have the opportunity to discuss this with parliament .
the key element of this proposal is to make the system even more effective .
"as you know , the european union made some major commitments to support what we call fast track financing ."
parliament had called for a better mutual understanding between the two banks .
what can be expected from an investment bank during a crisis ?
mainly that it tries to compensate the decline in the lending activities of the commercial banks by creating liquidity .
why is this so important ?
we have to create jobs .
"the bank also did well , in this very respect , in restructuring certain target areas ."
the committee welcomes the high capital adequacy ratio of the european investment bank eib .
it is the member states that are the partners of the eib .
it does not have it because it is an international entity that is not subject to national audit authorities .
"commissioner , I would like you to support this idea ."
i am told that the member states are against it .
i would like to conclude now with investment and the role of the eib .
i will mention here just three important points .
"first of all , loans which are given must support the europe 2020 agenda ."
it increased the money supply and ensured that the lending volume increased significantly .
this lessened the deepening of the financial crisis and was important for enabling any sort of recovery to occur .
these investments were able to alleviate the crisis significantly .
"small enterprises are , of course , the engine of our economy ."
they make up 99 % of all our companies in europe and employ 100 million people .
evening out the differences in europe is another important part of the eib's work .
it is beneficial to the eu to have stable and economically strong neighbours .
"openness , transparency and the combating of fraud are particularly important subject areas ."
we think that this is very good .
here the eib can function as a beacon for openness for other eu institutions .
"so , finally I come to a blot on the eib's protocol ."
it is very disappointing that equality within the eib is still so poor .
the eib must improve in this area .
"this is something we can read about in its diversity strategy from december 200mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mr maystadt , fellow countrymen , we need a bank like yours ."
"we need public lending instruments , and even more so at european level ."
"what role should you play in our opinion , though ?"
"that of a catalyst , of course ."
"from that point of view , allow me to quote just one figure ."
i think that this is how you will play your role as catalyst .
"the increased financial commitment should be appreciated , here , as it is fairly significant in this area ."
"support for this sector is especially valuable , particularly in times of crisis ."
and what have such loans done for the european economy ?
have they created jobs ?
"no , they have exported jobs , sometimes to cheaper european countries and sometimes outside the eu altogether ."
electrolux is an example of eib success .
"lent eur 250 million for capacity enhancement , they built new factories in poland , romania and hungary ."
"however , it is important to ensure that the businesspeople in question actually receive the loans ."
is there any recourse for businesses that are refused even if they seem to have good business plans ?
so we are not out of the woods yet .
i would like to know is this the case ?
i am sure that this will receive broad support in the european parliament .
"however , this also means that parliament must in future extend its own supervisory procedures ."
"i am referring here , for example , to the investment facility ."
we welcome the fact that the eib has revised its policy on offshore financial centres .
"fr mr president , the european investment bank is both a bank and an institution ."
will this position be pursued for other requests to finance nuclear power stations ?
"as we look on , ukraine is going through a crisis ."
"today , in the difficult situation of ukraine , it is becoming apparent how much we can help ."
"therefore , I support macrofinancial aid for ukraine ."
"as we all know , today the union is dealing with the greek crisis ."
"mrs kadenbach , for example , has referred to its essential contribution to social convergence ."
i would like to put that in a political context .
that is the language of hitler's fascism .
"this is the way in which these people work , by branding their political opponents as monsters ."
"we should pay tribute to the responsiveness that it has shown since autumn 200in 2008 alone , the eib paid out eur 10 billion more than it anticipated ."
to me it seems extremely important to continue to develop initiatives such as jeremie .
"enterprises need equity , venture capital , guarantees , loans and the technical assistance proposed by jeremie ."
"mr maystadt , I am convinced that we must continue along these lines ."
"the eib even decreased its investment significantly in acp countries , in asia and in latin america ."
"without doubt , the current economic crisis has highlighted the important work of the european investment bank ."
we urgently need a european mechanism for financial stability .
i must point out that I want nothing to do with this member of parliament .
i have not spoken to him today and I will not do so in future .
i do not want anything to do with a person of this kind .
"i reject mr martin's assertion and , in my opinion , he should withdraw it ."
"mr mölzer , your words have therefore been recorded in the verbatim record of today's sitting ."
this institution has played and continues to play a crucial role during the current financial and economic crisis .
the president cut off the speaker 
"as my fellow members have said , a significant proportion of the loans are for supporting smes ."
"my country , lithuania , is a case in point ."
"the last one is of particular importance , especially knowing the energy infrastructure problems that ."
the president cut off the speaker . 
the president cut off the speaker 
the support of the eif is of great importance in particular to small and medium sized enterprises in difficult times .
"mr president , I would like to thank all the speakers for their comments ."
"of course , some of the issues raised deserve to be discussed in more detail ."
"mrs győri and mr schmidt , in particular , underlined this ."
i think that they are quite right to stress the importance of support for smes .
we have diversified the range of our intermediaries .
the third operational priority is energy and the fight against climate change .
"i shall be brief now , and address a few issues regarding supervision and governance ."
i think we are already the most supervised international financial institution .
"finally , a specific point raised by mr schmidt ."
"he is right , we still have some progress to make in terms of gender equality ."
the figure that he quoted concerns only managerial staff .
it is true that we have too few women in the eib's managerial staff .
i wish to say three things on the matter .
"many of you have , understandably , referred to the situation in greece ."
"it was a difficult , but at the same time , necessary and responsible decision ."
now it is crucially important that all the national parliaments finalise their decisions soon .
"i , for one , am confident of your support in achieving this objective ."
"this is not just about greece , but the stability of the entire eurozone economy ."
"i am sure that we can do this , but it will mean acting responsibly ."
now is not the time to score popularity points it is a time for responsible and determined action .
"i believe that in this respect , as well , we are knocking on open doors ."
"ukraine was mentioned , as well as the balkan regions ."
i myself agree .
on such occasions it is usually the leaders of institutions who get the praise .
"last but not least , please allow me to thank my fellow members for their cooperation ."
"it was a joint effort , and the success is also shared ."
mr hans peter martin has asked for the floor due to personal allusions .
"de mr president , it is sad that I have to bring this up in plenary ."
i have to tell you that what mr mölzer has said is untrue .
on the way in here he did indeed call me a psychopath .
in recent years he has often told me that I should see a psychiatrist .
that is the way in which radical right wingers work .
this is the man whose party mr mölzer belongs to and whom he works closely with .
we should also be dealing with the dangerous rise of right wing radicalism .
this must be stopped before it gets out of hand .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 11.00 .
written statements rule 149 
the greatest difficulty these businesses currently face is in accessing funding and capital .
the financial intermediaries must pass these loans on to the small businesses .
"in 2008 , the european investment bank celebrated its 50th anniversary ."
the year 2008 also saw the beginning of the world financial and economic crisis which devastated the european economy .
"in reacting to the crisis , the eib significantly increased its lending volume to businesses in 200the positive role played by the eib during the crisis is incontrovertible ."
the best way for this is to simplify the complicated bureaucracy and create clear procedures .
"mass atrocities in jos , nigeria , in january and march debate "
"according to the constitution , acting president jonathan automatically becomes the substantive president ."
thousands have been left homeless and are currently in camps .
the eu was amongst the first of nigeria's international partners to make public its views on the violence .
"it is apparent , however , that the conflict always involves extremely poor people ."
"religious differences often fuel and amplify existing differences , leading to larger clashes ."
measures being undertaken by the eu in nigeria combine diplomacy with longer term development cooperation .
under the edf we support development cooperation in nigeria .
"the two most important sectors are peace and security , and governance and human rights ."
the recent outbreaks of violence in nigeria are emblematic of a wider problem that faces the country .
"there are social , political and economic factors that must be considered before we reach conclusions ."
"the killings are similar in method and consequence to previous clashes in 2001 , 2004 and 200violence has been used in the past to settle differences and has once again triumphed over dialogue ."
"most importantly , the region suffers from scarce resources and the unequal access of different groups to these resources ."
indigenous farmers feel threatened by settlers looking for pasture for their livestock .
we therefore call for a wider examination of the causes of this conflict .
"if nothing is done about the poverty and discrimination , these clashes will continue ."
a long term and lasting solution can only be found if all these factors are taken into account .
the nigerian state governors should do better by addressing the many underlying problems in the criminal justice system .
only then can the perpetrators of the violent clashes have a fair and transparent trial .
"mr president , we have only just learnt of the death of umaru yar adua ."
his death comes at a time when the division between muslims and christians is taking a particularly dreadful turn .
the 200 christians killed in the jos region are the reason for this current resolution .
"we might also note , yet again , that poverty does not help at all ."
"that it is the result , among others , of the political authoritiesinability to overcome corruption ."
what can the european union do in such circumstances ?
we will do this .
we can also condemn the atrocities .
we will do that in the present resolution .
"in fact , we can do everything it takes we can condemn all this time and again ."
some have been waiting to be tried for 10 years .
we are still waiting for this reform .
they will be repeated in the future unless something is done .
"violence still erupts almost daily and christians , in particular , are at the receiving end ."
nigeria needs to do four things .
"secondly , it must bring the perpetrators to justice ."
dreadful occurrences of this kind cannot be tolerated .
"thirdly , it must encourage dialogue between the ethnic and religious groups ."
"one might even say that it should be a rich country , since oilfields have been discovered there ."
"the value of its gdp puts it in second place in africa , after south africa and before algeria ."
why is nigeria in this situation ?
nigeria is one of the most corrupt countries in the world .
where are these dollars ?
"in bank accounts in switzerland , the united kingdom and france ."
there is talk of over 500 deaths in the past three months .
"unfortunately , nigeria is not the only country where there are conflicts and tensions between religious groups ."
"it is a large , wealthy country with huge social inequalities ."
in this case we must support the resolution and also what mrs vergiat has said .
"it does go far enough , but it is important that the eu stands for human rights ."
we must not tolerate what china is intending to do in nigeria and its disregard for human rights .
"beyond being wrong , immoral , unjust and inhumane , violence is not worthwhile it is not advantageous ."
"as you are aware , at the beginning of this year , more than 300 muslims were massacred ."
"not even two months later , a similar number of christians were murdered in just two hours ."
"with this in mind , I think that an international presence is needed ."
"secondly , we have the problem of impunity , which also applies in general in africa's conflict zones ."
the international community needs to be specifically involved once again .
"forty years on , sadly , little seems to have changed ."
i am therefore worried about the long term sustainability of nigeria as a unitary state .
the alternative is indeed a break up of nigeria and further barbaric horrors inflicted on the people .
"pl mr president , nigeria is an important country a very important country ."
this is why we are taking an interest in what happened on 7 march near the city of jos .
so there are very many differences and we must not treat these events as clear examples of religious persecution .
i think it is important to refer to their own documents .
"finally , especially today , my sympathy goes to the nigerian people on the death of their president ."
i would like to raise two points in my speech .
"in other words , there is never any sign of public accountability for the crimes committed ."
"secondly , I would like to stress that we must bear in mind the religious aspect to the conflict ."
we must support him on this .
"as european society and as members of the european parliament , we must not ignore what has happened ."
this is why I wholeheartedly support the resolution .
"member of the commission . mr president , thank you for a very serious and responsible debate today ."
many of you have highlighted the complexity of societal problems in nigeria .
"i agree with you , and the commission is aware of the complexity of these problems ."
we actively give strong and constructive support to nigeria .
"to conclude the debate , I have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 2 ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 11.00 .
written statements rule 149 
"however , this condemnation should not be limited just to words ."
it should include action which will guarantee peaceful coexistence in the future .
it should be remembered that this is not the first time such terrible events have taken place in jos .
the fighting between adherents of these two religions has been going on since 200the complicated background to the conflict shows the depth of the divisions involved .
nigerian christians and nigerian muslims differ not only with respect to religion .
the sitting was suspended for a few minutes while awaiting the start of the vote . 
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
the union's efforts in combating corruption written declaration see minutes
the next item is the vote .
for results and other information regarding the vote see minutes 
revision of the treaties transitional measures concerning the composition of the european parliament 
kyrgyzstan 
electric cars 
motor vehicle block exemption regulation
commission communication on action against cancer european partnership 
"mobilising information and communication technologies to facilitate the transition to an energy efficient , low carbon economy "
commission white paper adapting to climate change towards a european framework for action 
the degradation of ecosystems will cause a severe blow to the health of our economies and of european citizens .
"in order for adaptation to be possible , a systemic approach which includes renewable energies will be necessary ."
i would like to warmly thank all of my colleagues who contributed to the success of this report .
applause 
protection of the communitiesfinancial interests fight against fraud annual report 2008 
european investment bank eib annual report 2008 
"mass atrocities in jos , nigeria , in january and march "
voting time
explanations of vote
let us proceed to the explanations of votes .
the consumer needs to be sure that revenue obtained from security fees is used exclusively for covering security expenses .
"we have done this at the last minute , but we have responded to the needs of our citizens ."
we are guaranteeing good quality parts at reasonable prices .
we must come up with a new path and work to pick the economy back up through these networks .
"however , I have some reservations about how this parliament and the eu legislate on this matter ."
i would prefer that we had a science based approach to animal welfare rather than one driven by emotion .
"if they do not , we are a disgrace ."
"de mr president , animal welfare is indivisible ."
it must be standardised and we need a global definition of it .
"consumers have a right to buy not only healthy food , but also food which has been produced healthily ."
"mrs mcguinness , thank you , and many greetings to your visitorsgroup ."
"de mr president , I would like to make three brief remarks about the report ."
"firstly , agriculture is not the problem in the case of climate change , it is the solution ."
"mr president , I hope everybody in the visitorsgallery is impressed !"
we need to take account of different soil conditions across the european union .
i want to ask the commission to take into account these concerns when they prepare their legislative text .
"for your information for next time , we have only one minute for the explanations of vote ."
"i give the floor to our best speaker today , and that is mrs mcguinness ."
"mr president , thank you for the endorsement ."
i am most concerned about the decision to reopen bilateral talks with the mercosur countries on two different levels .
"again , the beef sector , the poultry sector and the pigmeat sector will be most affected ."
"i could not support this report on that basis , and I warn colleagues about its implications ."
welcome
i would like to extend a very warm welcome to all members of this delegation .
explanations of vote continuation 
the wordcyanideis synonymous withdeath.
"this outright vote will do us romanians , in particular , a big favour ."
one of the largest natural fields in the world is located in transylvania .
europe has had enough of one chernobyl and does not need another one .
"otherwise , the passions expressed here have only served to destroy certain communitieschance of development ."
applause 
i abstained on the resolution on kyrgyzstan .
this in itself is quite understandable since health affects all of us and those closest to us .
collective and coordinated work by member states is required to reduce the risk in the area of cancer cases .
we know that early diagnosis of this disease will increase the chances of a successful cure .
"the incidence of some kinds of cancer can be predicted by genetic predisposition , lifestyle and so on ."
europe must demonstrate that it is united in this area as well .
"mr president , that is why I voted in favour of the report ."
therefore the initiative of the commission to use ict to meet eu 2020 goals should be applauded .
"i represent southern italy , which is located in the south of europe in the mediterranean basin ."
obviously it is very difficult to speak with all this confusion in any case I am finishing .
it really is impossible to speak .
"mr president , I support the commission's white paper and the report by mr prodi ."
i think that such a white paper is especially needed in the aftermath of the copenhagen climate change talks .
the results that we saw in copenhagen are definitely not enough .
we need to pay special attention to the way we produce our energy .
we need to make stronger efforts to set up a tangible common energy policy .
"de mr president , I support the motion which mr prodi has tabled today ."
i am concerned that the conservatives are using this method to reintroduce nuclear power by the back door .
promoting low carbon energy sources is a well known argument used by the nuclear lobby .
i would like to emphasise the fact that the prodi report is definitely going in a different direction .
"as an austrian , I do not regard nuclear power as renewable energy ."
formal sitting
applause 
he was elected six times before becoming vice president of the united states in november 200he leads opinion he does not follow opinion .
vice president biden's visit to the european union today demonstrates this commitment .
"in america , after one year under president obama's leadership , there is new hope for the world ."
"mr vice president , the timing of your address could not be better ."
"mr vice president , it is a great pleasure to welcome you here this afternoon to europe's parliament ."
the floor is yours .
applause 
"vice president of the united states of america . mr president , thank you for that welcome ."
i served in a parliament that only had 435 members total this is even a greater honour .
"much has changed since 1985 , much has changed , and a terrible beauty has been born ."
stop and think about that for a moment .
let me state it as plainly as I can .
we believe it is absolutely essential to american prosperity and long term security .
so have no doubt about that .
so much has changed .
here you are .
"a community dedicated to free thought , free movement and free enterprise ."
a europe that one historian has callednot so much a place but an idea.
"a europe that is whole , a europe that is free and a europe that is at peace ."
applause 
that is why we will do everything we can to support this great endeavour of yours .
"together , through the marshall plan , we rebuilt europe and made perhaps the greatest investment in human history ."
"they are difficult there will be disagreement , but we are taking them on jointly ."
climate change one of the greatest threats our planet faces .
"we all looked to , and we did take , a major step forward in copenhagen ."
"together we embarked on an unprecedented path of engagement with the iranian leaders and , ladies and gentlemen ,"
applause 
"in the face of the threat iran poses , we are committed to the security of our allies ."
applause 
the world has changed .
it has changed utterly .
a terrible beauty has been born .
the scourge has no respect for borders none .
i am absolutely confident that we must and can both protect our citizens and preserve our liberties .
applause 
applause 
for what is their purpose ?
their purpose is to change what we value change how we conduct ourselves .
i also told them that america cannot prevail in this new struggle by acting alone .
we call them inalienable rights .
the supreme court of the united states has made clear that privacy is a constitutionally protected and fundamental right .
"like the eu , the supreme court has characterised this right as a matter of personal dignity ."
"on a personal level , I have , for 36 years of my career , defended privacy rights ."
i suspect that is how every world leader looks at their role .
"indeed , no less than privacy , physical safety is also an inalienable right ."
it is vital that we maintain every capacity we have under the law to stop such attacks .
it has built in redundancies that ensure personal information is respected and used only for counterterrorism purposes .
but I do not blame you for questioning it .
we understand your concerns .
"all of you are going through that every time you vote in this parliament , I suspect ."
applause 
courage is also what it takes to sit down and listen .
this afternoon I have done all the speaking .
it is no accident that we have already returned several times since then .
"the united states needs europe , and I respectfully submit that europe needs the united states ."
we need each other more now than we ever have .
applause 
we strongly support what you are about here .
"we wish you god speed , and may god bless you all and may god protect all of our troops ."
"thank you very , very much ."
applause 
"mr vice president , thank you very much ."
it was a great basis for future cooperation and our future talks .
"as you said , listen and talk to each other ."
that is very important .
i would like to thank you for repeating the most important words from last week europe needs america .
"as you added today , america needs europe ."
we will remember that .
it is a good beginning to our partnership and cooperation .
"mr vice president , once again , thank you very much ."
applause 
explanations of vote continuation 
we still have three explanations of votes remaining .
a strong and competitive role for olaf is among the factors that helped to improve the situation .
in eu 10 they grew by 8 % while debt for the eu 2 increased by 152 % .
"mr president , first of all I would like to thank mr deutsch for his excellent report ."
"significantly , one observer has spoken of systematic religious persecution ."
"that is my criticism , and that is why I abstained ."
i appreciate that very much .
written explanations of vote
northern ireland also uses the system of proportional representation for european elections .
there will be 18 new members from 12 member states .
"we await , therefore , introduction of the council proposal on modification of protocol no I do not see the situation in the same way , as it also concerns democratic problems ."
it is for that reason that I have voted against this report .
it is not a precedent for the future .
"however , we have decided that the most important principle is representativeness ."
"this house should have , above all , a balanced representation as quickly as possible ."
"i voted for the excellent report by my colleague , mr méndez de vigo ."
the european parliament has agreed to 18 meps joining the chamber during the parliamentary term .
"consequently , they adapted the way in which the elections were held ."
the solution found in the end the appointment of two members of the national assembly is unacceptable .
it is thanks to direct universal suffrage that we can rightfully speak on behalf of all europeans .
"that is wrong , and it is why our delegation has voted against this report ."
"nonetheless , there is a broad consensus that it should be done now ."
i do not agree with the possibility that the new members be appointed by their national authorities .
i believe that members only acquire legitimacy through election .
the treaty of lisbon increases the number of meps from 736 to 7our parliament therefore had to adopt new provisions concerning its composition for the rest of the parliamentary term .
the democratic movement delegation did not vote in favour of this text for two reasons .
"this accelerated procedureviolatesnot only the spirit , but also the letter , of the treaties ."
it also sets an unfortunate precedent .
the exceptional circumstances fully justify the exceptional solutions adopted .
germany has been allocated three fewer seats in view of the maximum number laid down in the eu treaty .
"this is scheming between friends , with the support of this parliament ."
temporary ?
"furthermore , after his initial democratic undertakings bakiyev's rule turned authoritarian ."
"meanwhile , bakiyev fled the country to seek refuge in kazakhstan ."
"a united nations led international investigation into the events is needed , in order to identify responsibilities ."
"there can be no consent , on our part , to other measures ."
i hope the resolution on kyrgyzstan is one of many steps we will take .
the whole of europe expects this of us .
i welcome the recent communication on clean and efficient vehicles .
putting electric cars on the market could represent a competitive advantage for european industry .
"it is also important to create tax incentives , with appropriate electricity prices for consumers ."
another essential factor will be the modernisation of electricity grids .
this coordination also encourages compatibility and interoperability .
we believe the development of electric cars to be necessary as an alternative to vehicles that use fossil fuels .
"these problems and limitations , as we said , make it inadvisable to take commercial or advertising risks ."
i am relying on the other european institutions to support us in this undertaking .
we must identify ways of encouraging member states to implement a common strategy on standardising electric vehicles .
"the success of this strategy will definitely reduce costs for users , thereby making electric vehicles more attractive ."
a lack of coordination at european level means that not only users have to pay high costs .
"industrial manufacturers will need to standardise their various industrial specifications , which will have a direct impact on costs ."
we must find ways of encouraging european consumers towards using electric cars .
i think that local authorities have an important role to play in this .
"the eu must , therefore , invest significantly in creating a supply network that effectively covers europe's territory ."
support for the development of electric vehicles may have numerous benefits .
cities need efficient transport systems in order to support the economy and to ensure the well being of their residents .
approximately 85 % of the eu's gdp is generated in cities .
nine out of 10 eu citizens believe that the traffic situation in their area should be improved .
in europe 380 000 businesses are involved in motor vehicle distribution and services .
"almost all of these are small and medium sized enterprises , employing 2.8 million people ."
"today , however , the commission is proposing to abolish the existing exemption for the sale of new vehicles ."
it follows detailed consultations with the motor vehicle sector .
"this industry continues to be fundamental to the european economy , contributing to employment , technological innovation and competitiveness ."
"in fact , it welcomes the abolition of the exemption and the application of the general law of competition ."
"admittedly , whether doing or undoing , one is still taking action ."
"for this reason , I have voted against the commission proposal ."
"block exemptions contribute , therefore , to legal certainty and to the consistent application of european rules ."
i would reiterate the importance of supporting such proposals .
they discourage individual initiatives in favour of competition among dealers and repairers and encourage the development of the sector .
"according to the world health organisation , at least one third of all cases of cancer are preventable ."
it is therefore essential that relevant stakeholders across the european union engage in a collective effort to address cancer .
one european in three will be diagnosed with cancer during their lifetime .
"in fact , this cruel disease is the second most common cause of death in europe ."
one third of the cancers diagnosed have a fatal outcome for the patient because they were diagnosed too late .
research and prevention are the main lines of attack against this disease .
this will yield results in the medium term .
it would also be important to include funding to promote cancer prevention in the financial perspective .
it is also essential to reduce inequalities in treatment .
cancer is one of the biggest health challenges we are facing worldwide .
"the european commission proposes a european partnership for action against cancer for the period 2009 20the member states must act together , particularly in the area of screening ."
"in europe , one in three people will develop cancer during their lifetime ."
this is fundamental to improving patientseveryday life .
"breast cancer remains the main cause of death among women aged 35 to 5according to the world health organization , cancer is the main cause of death worldwide ."
public health is one of the eu's priorities .
"out of 3 million new sufferers , 1.7 million will not survive ."
early diagnosis and treatment could reduce this figure significantly .
"we must not only invest in treatment across europe , but also provide support for preventive measures ."
"we must make transnational cooperation our priority , so that we can permanently stop the spread of cancer ."
i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on action against cancer european partnership .
all measures intended to fight cancer and minimise its effects should be supported .
"medical science is still unable to stop cancer , which is becoming one of the greatest plagues of humanity ."
"the knowledge that , in 2006 , cancer was the second most common cause of death is horrifying ."
"there are many causes of cancer , or often the causes cannot be defined and diagnosed ."
"however , it is possible to prevent cancer and limit its effects in about 30 % of cases ."
"to achieve this , suitable national testing programmes are needed ."
"similar measures should be put in place throughout the union , but with greater intensity and effectiveness ."
"the forecasts for the coming years , in terms of cancer incidence and mortality , are not optimistic ."
"however , let us take care that our citizens are aware that in this matter they have full support ."
it is an objective that is supported today by the european parliament vote on the peterle report .
i strongly support the european parliament report on the commission communication on action against cancer european partnership .
"this year , 3 million europeans will develop cancer and nearly 2 million are expected to die of cancer ."
"in poland , about 100 000 people fall victim to cancer every year , and 70 000 die ."
the fight against cancer is one of the permanent areas of eu action in the field of public health .
the restrictions placed on the financial resources for these objectives are disturbing .
in writing . lt cancer is the biggest health problem in europe and indeed worldwide .
"sadly , today cancer is still epidemically increasing ."
urgent action must be taken to improve cancer control and prevention in the eu .
the situation is particularly serious in lithuania .
statistical indicators for the various types of cancer are among the worst in the whole of the eu .
"cancer is a social and political problem , not just a health problem ."
"to solve it there need to be joint actions at european , national , regional and local level ."
this new form of cooperation is intended to support the efforts of member states in the fight against cancer .
medical statistics show that over 3 million new cases and 1.7 million deaths are recorded every year in europe .
this means that every year cancer holds second place among the most serious diseases and causes of death .
"however , it must not be forgotten that in this uneven fight the most important factor is prevention ."
"this is the most cost effective measure , because one third of cancer cases can be avoided ."
all these forecasts only serve to encourage us towards making full use of state of the art technologies .
information and communication technologies ict play an essential role in promoting european economic growth .
"in this way , consumers will be able to manage their energy consumption , evening out the demand curve ."
urban organisation achieved through the use of icts can substantially reduce the energy impact of urban areas .
the european union has reaffirmed its commitment to a 20 % reduction in carbon emissions by 20it will be difficult to maintain this commitment without fully exploiting the potential offered by icts .
"icts can , in actual fact , significantly reduce co2 emissions ."
the remaining 98 % of emissions come from other sectors of the economy and of society .
"in writing . we , greens , voted in favour of this report ."
all the original parts of the text that some groups wanted to delete remained in .
the importance of access to high speed internet for everyone is paramount .
"it should be noted that when the transport sector grows , carbon dioxide emissions also rise rapidly ."
ict solutions must be included when planning the new european transport policy .
time and financial resources are needed to change this .
this would also reduce damage to the environment .
logistics are an important factor in the rationalisation of transport and reduction of carbon emissions .
it is difficult to imagine at present how it could be worse than this .
"however , the experts are not very optimistic ."
"however , mitigation and adaptation measures must not be separate ."
civil protection structures have to prioritise preparedness for floods and droughts .
it is important to keep the social and public health implications of this challenge in mind .
it may gravely impact on respiratory health and increase the incidence of vector borne diseases .
"deprived communities , poor children and elderly people are amongst the most vulnerable to climate change health risks ."
adaptation measures are necessary in order to meet the challenges posed by climate change .
the eu must retain and reinforce its leadership role in the international fight against climate change .
the issue of adaptation is cross cutting and affects several sectoral policies .
there must be greater political coordination by member states in these areas .
"in fact , I advocate making national adaptation plans based on a common european framework obligatory ."
analysis of the risks represented by climate change to europe's most vulnerable regions is urgently required .
i also believe that there must be european targets for the efficiency of public water supply systems .
"like everything excessive , it is ridiculous ."
"as the poet said hey lumberjack , stop a moment ."
unavoidable climate change is forcing society and the european union economy to accommodate to a new reality .
this is a question of solidarity that the whole of the eu would benefit from .
"in writing . we , as greens , voted in favour of this report ."
the good new is that the amendment to delete the focus on nuclear safety was defeated .
"therefore , the idea to create a climate change monitoring platform would seem to be a good one ."
i therefore welcome the fact that this report places transport once again at the heart of this problem .
we must make substantial efforts to successfully help enterprises and users adapt to climate change .
we therefore support the thrust of the cozzolino report and most of its conclusions .
"the ecr group cannot , however , endorse the concept of a european public prosecutor ."
i would also stress the essential contribution of the european anti fraud office to reducing these figures .
over the years we have seen irregularities decrease significantly .
"nevertheless , we cannot be satisfied with reducing these irregularities to marginal amounts or to almost zero ."
"however , the proposed measures for combating fraud have too much of a centralist focus ."
i have therefore abstained from voting .
"in writing . in the final vote , I said in favour ."
"the amendment by the ecr group , which I voted against , was defeated ."
the greatest improvement occurred in the area of spending on agriculture .
the report shows that the estimated amount of irregularities fell by 34 % .
"to a certain extent , this results from a lack of effective mechanisms of control and supervision ."
"however , it is essential to guarantee its full operational independence ."
what role should be played by member states and their systems of supervision and auditing ?
combating fraud in european projects should be a priority for us .
"therefore , we should guarantee that they are spent in the most effective way ."
investing european money purely in infrastructure would benefit both the country and its trade .
there would no longer bepoorbusiness people who ask for but do not receive support .
"therefore , all the attention should be directed at the public use of that money ."
the european investment bank eib was established in 1958 by the treaty of rome .
the eib has seen its role expand in 2008 as a result of the financial crisis .
"in particular , loans to smes have increased by 42 % ."
in writing . that was an easy one .
i voted in favour in the final vote .
"however , for the general reasons stated , I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution ."
"the conflict in nigeria has roots in religious , economic , ethnic , social , historical and political reasons ."
the adverse effects of climate change have also been contributing to the worsening of the situation in nigeria .
"i voted for the european parliament motion for a resolution on the mass atrocities in jos , nigeria ."
this is not the first time that nigeria has suffered a conflict that has threatened to split the country .
"nigeria's borders were drawn up by the colonial powers , which paid no attention to the aforementioned differences ."
"that does not , however , mean that responsibility for the country's conflicts lies essentially with europeans ."
these disturbances are now taking place even more frequently .
trivial matters are causing violent clashes .
what was lacking was an outcry from the eu .
"however , when christians are murdered because of their religion , the eu takes months to react ."
the european union must act as an honest broker in this respect and respond more quickly .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
documents received see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
resumption of the session
"i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday , 6 may 20statements by the president"
"to begin with , I would like to give you some information ."
"firstly , the sixth international day against homophobia is being observed in the european union , today ."
"exactly 20 years ago , the world health organisation removed homosexuality from the international classification of diseases ."
the european union is fighting discrimination on all fronts .
this also includes homophobia .
visitors were able to see the work of parliament close up and learn about our everyday work .
the buildings were open to all citizens .
"in all , over 33 000 citizens of the european union visited parliament in brussels and strasbourg ."
there were 11 members of the european parliament with me .
"we talked with them , we sat together and discussed matters related to the union ."
the third piece of information .
first prize was won by thetrain for europeproject from germany .
second place was won by a project from ireland and third place by a project from bulgaria .
young people from all countries of the union entered the competition .
the speakers of all 40 national parliaments were represented .
we spoke about future cooperation and also about the coming belgian presidency .
i would also like to express my good wishes and congratulations .
"two european union member states , the united kingdom and hungary , have new governments ."
we wish them stability .
"in the european union , we have a great need for stable governments ."
"they are needed , amongst other things , to enable decisions to be made quickly ."
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting
the minutes of the previous sitting were approved 
i believe the entire chamber is united in remembering the two italian soldiers who were killed this morning .
"thank you , gentlemen , for pointing this out to me ."
this is our custom in the european parliament .
thank you once again to both members for drawing my attention to this .
i agree with you entirely .
i think we all have the same view on this .
they are our representatives .
calendar of part sessions for 2011 see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
signature of acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure see minutes
documents received see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
petitions see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
order of business
we will now proceed to the order of business .
monday no changes .
tuesday no changes .
wednesday 
i anticipate that voting on these proposals on consultation will take place on wednesday at 12.00 .
parliament agreed to the request 
we will now proceed to the final establishment of the order of business .
"concerning monday and tuesday , there have been no requests or submissions about amendments to the order of business ."
"there is , however , one proposal about wednesday ."
mrs gräßle will move the request on behalf of the ppe group .
"mr president , this morning the council answered the outstanding questions via the spanish presidency ."
one of the main conditions for a vote on the report is thereby met .
"however , the resolution itself will be dealt with during the june part session ."
"mr president , I will be brief ."
we are able to support this motion for the reasons stated .
an official letter is on its way to parliament .
"to this extent , I agree with mrs gräßle ."
a coordinatorsmeeting was held in the committee on budgetary control that I myself chaired .
"this morning , documents were indeed received from the council , and I scrutinised them ."
they include an annex that is identical to the annex to the document we received on 10 march .
parliament agreed to the request 
voting on the czarnecki report will take place on wednesday .
"the deadline for tabling amendments is tuesday , 18 may at 12.00 ."
"the request will be moved by the rapporteur , mrs bauer ."
"therefore , I ask that we postpone this until the june plenary ."
that is not usual parliamentary procedure .
it is therefore absolutely right to put this on the agenda .
applause 
it is true that this commission legislative proposal was rejected in the committee on employment and social affairs .
parliament agreed to the request 
the debate on the bauer report will be postponed until the next part session .
thursday
the request will be explained further by mr preda .
we have heard an explanation of the request .
who would like to speak in favour of the request ?
"therefore , I move for this to be replaced with a discussion on thailand ."
"these are urgent matters , which are discussed on thursday afternoon ."
the order of business for our plenary sitting has been established .
parliament agreed to the request 
the order of business was thus established 
one minute speeches on matters of political importance
the president cut off the speaker and asked for order in the house 
"flawed european economic governance reacted , in my opinion , too late ."
of course we need financial equilibrium in europe .
"i refer , for example , to the need to revise the directive on market abuse ."
"by the same token , I repeat my proposal to create a european credit rating authority ."
that is what I wanted to talk to you about .
"in spain , this is our second largest industry ."
"in the islands I hail from , it is the main industry ."
there is huge concern for the effects of the volcanic cloud on the tourist industry .
there is talk of losses of eur 42 million a day .
"it must encourage the widespread installation of accessible and interoperable charging points in europe , starting with urban areas ."
"lastly , it must encourage the member states to gradually replace their fleet of combustion vehicles with electric cars ."
"sl today , we are marking the international day against homophobia ."
"i am very concerned by the misleading , offensive and even hate fuelled statements which can still be heard ."
"today , most europeans say that the burkha should be banned ."
we cannot permit religious arguments to fuel discrimination and violence .
the competitiveness council will be informed of the result on that date .
"change is being brought about without any analysis or perspective , while distancing from good european practice ."
there is already the tendency for actions to be targeted at financial and audit institutions .
"in my country , germany , an attempt is being made not to fight homophobia in schools ."
such a situation falls foul of one of the community's most important principles the principle of solidarity .
"el mr president , I wish to draw your attention to the question of chiropractic ."
britain may end up giving a total of gbp 23 billion to bolster the euro .
the recent onerous legislation on hedge funds is the clear signal of this .
the latest move robs britain of vital veto powers by allowing qualified majority voting on future bail outs .
the president cut off the speaker 
"telepathic signals , possibly ?"
the administration for the non attached has said that the delegates should be chosen by consensus .
what has been the response of parliament to all of this ?
how long before the president of parliament excises our right to vote in the plenary session ?
"strasbourg is presumably a difficult destination to reach , and downright impossible in exceptional circumstances ."
"in case anyone has not understood me , I have been talking about the current problems in slovak hungarian relations ."
the challenges of corruption do not disappear with development it only becomes more sophisticated .
"so far , domestic efforts have not been effective in all member states ."
we should not ignore this reality we should recognise it .
any delay will hurt the interests of european citizens .
the process of the agreement's ratification has effectively entered its closing stages .
"to save the eurozone , we have to reform its governance ."
these proposals should also take into account a common programme of structural reforms .
why are we dismayed ?
what was his crime ?
to report on the social unrest in the gafsa basin and on the repression that followed it .
"the lawyers abderraouf ayadi , ayachi hammami , mohamed abbou and radhia nasraoui are the victims of constant intimidation ."
the internet is increasingly being censored .
"i shall give one example , mr president , if I may my blog is now censored ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"in general , these debates are still being conducted clinging onto the skirts of mr ackermann and co ."
"what we really need , however , is a fundamental debate on the current monetary system ."
we should at long last be debating matters such as how to rid our system of its growth imperative .
what can we do to check the banksurge to provide credit ?
should we abolish interest ?
how can we arrive at a distinction between value and monetary value ?
"we should use money to create value for our society , not to create monetary value !"
"this will only be possible , however , if we have strong and , above all , independent policies ."
let us hope he keeps to his word and does that .
we must also condemn even more strongly the increasing number of physical assaults and the repetition of homophobic statements .
the code of silence must end here .
we must not overlook the matter of teaching tolerance quite the contrary .
i wish to take advantage of this opportunity to launch an appeal in this regard to baroness ashton .
the support ratings for the prime minister and interior minister are 56 % and 60 % respectively .
i saw some excellent things there and the spanish authorities deserve to be congratulated on this .
this petition has been collected from the seven kardzhali municipalities in just 10 days .
i made a commitment to inform europe's institutions about this civil protest .
"mr kazak , you spoke too quickly for our interpreters ."
it was not possible for them to interpret your speech precisely .
that concludes the item .
equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self employed capacity debate 
"parliament adopted its amendments at first reading on 4 may 200unfortunately , this principle of mandatory membership did not obtain a majority in the council of ministers ."
"what is more , the latter took nine months to come up with a common position ."
"it was finally issued by the spanish presidency , which has demonstrated exceptional tact and perseverance ."
"at their request , the new directive enables them to take 14 weeksleave ."
"today , these people are happy ."
applause 
you therefore have one minute left for the end .
it also takes a big step forward in terms of promoting female entrepreneurship .
i hardly need to stress the importance of both those points in the current situation .
i trust that the adopted text will apply to all sectors and not just to agriculture .
the creation of favourable conditions for the development of family firms involves supporting small and medium sized enterprises .
it involves creating a space for private initiative and new jobs .
their work is of just as much benefit to the economy as the work of an employee .
they therefore have the same right to social protection as the state accords to employees .
"however , in looking for suitable mechanisms for this protection , we must fully respect the principle of subsidiarity ."
the choice of instruments must remain in the hands of the member states .
"thank you , madam president ."
breaks in their involvement in the labour market during maternity leave should not be a handicap to mothers .
"nonetheless , I should like to make the same point as mrs lulling ."
"i think that that is a good thing , that it is important ."
"nonetheless , there is another important issue , and this is something I think we need to stress ."
"some have called increasing maternity leave to 14 weeks progress , and indeed it is ."
"when I first heard of this report , I wondered how it would work logistically ."
how does the report fit in here ?
this poor guy will be skinned in the courts by his wife for not paying the contributions .
"interesting times , and an interesting side effect to our report ."
the number of self employed workers in the united kingdom has risen to 1.7 million .
"should the state not , in these circumstances , support their effort ?"
"however , I am still concerned about legislation in matters of employment being made in brussels ."
"madam president , I would like to thank the council and the commission ."
the workforce that we are talking about is mostly made up of women and they have previously been invisible .
"naturally , it is not everything we could have wished ."
more regulation and more insurance obligations were a matter of debate .
"if women are assisting in small and medium sized enterprises , then they must at least have their own protection ."
"this must also come from the enterprises themselves , however ."
"however , it is not only by private means that the risk of basic social protection can be covered ."
that is subsidiarity .
i would like to thank everyone who contributed to it .
many women would like to become self employed but lack the courage on account of the uncertain social conditions .
i hope that this directive will merely be the first of two steps to achieving this .
we are now ensuring that all european women have the right to maternity leave .
"the next step must be to provide paternity leave , too , so that we can ensure genuine equality ."
"we need to establish a genuine alternative with regard to entrepreneurship for people , both men and women ."
"furthermore , there should be support for academic entrepreneurship , making it a component of study programmes ."
"in this respect , we are a long way behind the united states of america , among others ."
"if we compare the figures in europe , we find that most entrepreneurs are still actually men ."
this legislative text is an excellent step forward towards a more motivating and equal approach to entrepreneurship .
"it is a positive step , which we support ."
europe must protect .
bakersspouses will now be able to benefit from social rights .
maternity leave is also provided for all women .
the duration of this leave is currently set at 14 weeks .
it is now time to switch to taking action and to implement the proposals as quickly as possible .
europe's campaign to protect women is making headway with this text .
"however , we meps must continue to eliminate the inequalities between men and women ."
"pt madam president , this directive needs to be reviewed urgently ."
"there is , however , a prerequisite to contribute to social security ."
the current crisis and the rise in unemployment it has caused are affecting weaker groups in particular .
one of these groups are women .
i am talking about women who work in the home .
these entitlements are to be provided for by legislation at eu level .
i encourage all fellow members to endorse this report .
it is another step on what is still a very long road .
"we must all combat job insecurity and the failure to recognise rights , especially in times of economic crisis ."
it is absolutely necessary to recognise their professional status and to define their rights .
"self employed persons and their partners , the majority of whom are women , have rights ."
the present compromise addresses some of the existing inequalities .
"de madam president , thank you very much for allowing me to speak on this subject ."
around 30 % of all those in self employment in the eu are women .
self employed women often have to grapple with the problem that becoming a mother could endanger their livelihood .
"in all these areas , it is necessary to ensure appropriate social and legal protection ."
"de madam president , ladies and gentlemen , I should like to join in congratulating mrs lulling ."
"de madam president , I , too , should very much like to congratulate mrs lulling ."
it gives women in particular completely new opportunities in the area of self employment in small and medium sized enterprises .
"finally , it is also women who , time and again , ensure stability in the area of finances ."
"this is not the end of the process , but it is a huge step forward ."
"the member states will also have a clear obligation to grant social protection to assisting spouses , on request ."
"fr ladies and gentlemen , I am satisfied ."
i should like to reassure mr romeva I rueda .
this text is not perfect .
it still falls short of my requirements .
"we have not yet won the war , but we have won an important battle ."
this is a step in the right direction .
read it I do not have the time to read it out .
there is just one amendment .
"i therefore believe that these members could , in good conscience , vote for the other amendments ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place on tuesday , 18 may 20written statements rule 149 "
self employed people often do not have sickness insurance .
"they work when they are sick , because it is financially more advantageous ."
"women return to work after giving birth , and do not take maternity leave ."
assisting spouses do not have their own social security arrangements .
self employed people are essential to the functioning of the economy and they have an irreplaceable role in society .
the state does not have to contribute to their maintenance .
in writing . the proposal we are debating this week is not a technical one .
it's a matter of justice and common sense in two ways .
"secondly , we cannot discriminate against the new born children in these families ."
energy performance of buildings recast debate 
improving the energy performance of buildings will have a major impact on european citizenslives .
"in fact , this figure can even reach 54 % in the case of families with very low incomes ."
"in november 2009 , a political agreement was reached on the technical aspects of the legislative proposal ."
this agreement has the following main achievements .
"a separate article was introduced , along with several recitals and provisions concerning funding related aspects ."
the commission must identify the existing financial instruments and fiscal measures and table new proposals by 30 june 20these provisions are also supplemented by a declaration from the commission .
this deadline has been brought forward by two years for the public sector .
new provisions about certificates were introduced .
"a minimum amount of information must be specified in a certificate , including funding options ."
provisions were introduced on issuing and displaying energy performance certificates .
the directive will be reviewed by 1 january 20this is why I recommend its adoption .
energy efficiency is the cheapest way to combat climate change .
"firstly , national requirements of new builds and renovations will result in buildings that save considerably more energy ."
"secondly , the recast version means our citizens will be provided with better information ."
"thirdly , with effect from 2020 , all new builds must meet the extremely stringent near zero energy building standard ."
"for all these reasons , the new directive is a successful achievement of european energy policy ."
i am sure that parliament's support today represents an important step .
i would like to thank you all for your good cooperation .
"mr president , commissioner , mrs ţicău , I would like to congratulate you on this report ."
i believe it to be a great step in the right direction .
forty per cent of energy is used for heating and cooling buildings .
"however , we are also concerned with creating new jobs ."
we should take this opportunity to start investing again .
the buildings sector in the european union is one of the sectors with the most opportunities for energy saving .
"firstly , it is very important that the commission comes forward with a robust cost optimal methodology for renovation ."
this directive would not have turned out so successfully without a strong european parliament .
what we really need now from the commission is a european buildings initiative with four central pillars .
"firstly , assistance for national governments with transposing the directive ."
the last directive was not properly transposed .
"secondly , as you have mentioned , financing models ."
"thirdly , we need greater labour productivity in construction , and for that we need more training ."
we will only be able to build or renovate more cheaply if the entire renovation process is better designed .
i do welcome this report .
"as many have mentioned , 40 % of our energy is consumed in buildings ."
this is all good progress .
this recast was born because the original directive was being poorly implemented .
"i would like to finish on this , mr president ."
"in these areas , however , energy saving methods will be rather more difficult and more complicated ."
"personally , I will be delighted if the aims of this directive are well implemented ."
"however , I think that will be difficult in some areas ."
"however , reclassification requires increased public and private investment ."
i also call on them to work together to find the appropriate financing model for renovating existing buildings .
"i will not repeat what has been said before , but I will focus on two points ."
"first , the directive offers many new business opportunities to entrepreneurs ."
"second , the directive offers only a partial answer to the question of who will pay for all this ."
"energy saving is the cheapest way of producing energy , so let us use it ."
2010 is the year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion .
financial instruments are required .
europe's citizens cannot bear the costs alone for modernising energy systems .
hu I congratulate mrs ţicău on her report and on the directive .
"firstly , the potential for energy savings in residential buildings in the coming years is disputed ."
"what can be done easily has , in part , already been done ."
"in contrast , renovations particularly of listed buildings could be very expensive ."
a further point concerns zero energy buildings .
"in other words , for the electricity grid operator , the costs will remain the same ."
combined heat and power facilities also involve expensive dual structures .
"as such , we should focus on these buildings and houses immediately ."
"in my own country , there are many people who are currently unemployed building houses and so on ."
"however , thousands and thousands of houses are empty with no one living in them ."
"as such , there is no need to build new houses ."
"it is extremely important , and I also recommend that the plan be implemented ."
the construction sector offers great potential for energy savings .
it is vital to improve the energy performance of buildings in order to achieve the eu 2020 strategy objectives .
energy certificates are required primarily for informing purchasers about a house's energy performance .
"they will be introduced in romania , according to government representatives , by 1 january 2011 at the latest ."
the ministry of regional development and tourism has this year allocated ron 150 million for this purpose .
"i also welcome the proposal from my colleague , mr marinescu , to set up a special fund ."
this directive will also help us to overcome the crisis .
"its realisation requires experts and specialists , thereby creating jobs ."
"moreover , in the long term , it will reduce the household expenses of european citizens ."
this means that the number of partners to be won over is manageable .
"in the area of buildings , there are a huge number of players ."
"i am pleased to have your suggestions and contributions , which we have been following closely ."
"at present , the directive is on paper ."
its value will come with its transposition .
we are working intensively on the preparations for this .
i need your help in this .
we have long been making preparations for the next financial period .
you are familiar with the main programmes in the budget of the european union .
i suspect that the member states will not want to give us more money .
"as I said , it is an important step but not the last ."
"consequently , I welcome your suggestions ."
"i would like to thank all the members of this house , particularly the lead rapporteur ."
europe is at least a significant step ahead of other continents in this respect .
i would first of all like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the support they gave .
i would suggest somewhere between 8 and 12 % .
"commissioner , we will give you our support in creating this fund ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place on tuesday , 18 may 20written statements rule 149 "
"with this package of legislative action , we are taking a quantum leap towards an environmentally friendly society ."
"after all , buildings are responsible for approximately 40 % of co2 emissions ."
"in the next few years , we are going to gradually drive back these emissions to zero ."
special attention must be paid to the tenants of social housing in this connection .
the energy performance of buildings is an area with strong potential for the european union .
we must be mindful of the costs incurred by introducing new norms .
we need to treat this issue as a priority because europe is seeing the emergence of an energy crisis .
modernising residential buildings offers particularly important opportunities .
replacing doors and windows and fitting state of the art insulation can help keep household energy spending down .
the energy used by buildings represents almost one third of the total energy used in the european union .
"however , two features of the directive under discussion deserve a positive response ."
this kind of structural support affords an opportunity for the achievement of our objectives .
textile names and related labelling of textile products debate 
i should like to start by thanking everyone for the enormously constructive cooperation we have enjoyed .
the objective of this regulation is to enable new textile fibres to be placed on the market more quickly .
consumers can consult a website or other source for additional information if required .
this is what we want to prevent .
"thus , we find ourselves once more in the area of unfair commercial practices ."
we have made a number of proposals .
"we are talking not about the fibre but about other materials , such as pieces of fur ."
the proposal therefore aims to promote innovation within the textile sector .
i will adopt the same approach for the amendment that proposes labelling non textile parts of animal origin .
i would also like to make some observations about other amendments .
this sector effectively represents one of the main lines of development for european clothing products .
"such products would thus be exempt from labelling , and the number of exemptions could risk becoming excessive ."
"i thank you for your attention , and will listen carefully to your comments during this debate ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , textiles constitute one of the key sectors in our european market ."
i would particularly like to bring your attention to standards relating to the indication of origin .
consumers must be able to make an informed choice when buying textile products .
my sincere thanks to all of you for your cooperation .
this textile regulation is a sound proposal and a necessary one .
"however , we also believe that a proposal should not benefit one side only ."
it must not benefit industry alone .
it is also very important for us to focus on what is good for consumers .
we therefore also wanted it to contain a 100 % fibre composition list .
"however , we did not want to stop there ."
this is also one of the reasons why we have given this proposal such clear support .
we clearly need our own european standards on this subject .
"mr president , I would particularly like to agree with the words of the previous speaker ."
"we , too , are pleased that the committee on international trade is working in this area ."
i should also like to add my thanks to the rapporteur .
allow me to reemphasise what the issue is here .
we would all like to see clear country of origin marking .
"we would find that regrettable , because we genuinely believe that action needs to be taken relatively quickly here ."
"i want to take us back , in line with what mrs rühle was saying ."
i completely agree with her on how the question of country of origin marking is going to be handled .
i think that we should be very careful not to hold up the benefits .
"make some political statements , but let us not hold this up unnecessarily ."
"as consumers , we have the right to know that ."
now we also have the opportunity to request that the commission goes further in providing consumers with greater power .
"i am thinking , among other things , of care instructions and health and safety warnings ."
those with allergies must not have to be exposed to goods containing traces of allergenic substances .
our citizens often feel that the rules of the internal market give priority to companies and industry .
"this would benefit not only consumers , but also serious companies ."
the european commission never wastes a good crisis .
it follows that the uk independence party regards this report with suspicion .
"however , the first part of the report brings three directives into a single regulation which would simplify ."
"later , there is even a hint of a repeal ."
we have a completely effective system for sizing in the uk .
it is wholly different from the system which exists in most of continental europe .
uk citizens know and understand it and it should not be changed for an eu wide system .
this always results in mention of the power of consumers .
"commission , ladies and gentlemen , I am surprised that I am the first to mention this ."
why have we not been much more ambitious as regards social labelling ?
why do we still not have it ?
that is something we want to make possible .
the european commission is right in that .
"it is important , for example , to test whether the fibres are allergenic ."
"in this context , I must contradict the members who have said that we should leave out country of origin marking ."
it is very important and absolutely right .
many citizens want to know where the fibres and textiles come from .
what is their background ?
their background includes the way in which they were manufactured .
"it is deplorable , but in many states , child labour or even slave labour are still used ."
that is why anything that can help to protect jobs and know how in the european textile sector is positive .
we should then go further by establishing real community preference .
"da mr president , the textile industry is going through a period of dramatic change ."
"unfortunately , a large proportion of the goods are produced in countries with no form of product control whatsoever ."
"however , it is particularly important to inform consumers about allergenic and hazardous substances ."
i would like to express my opposition to those who describe this as protectionism .
this proposal is equally important for both the industry and the consumers .
this proposal started off as mainly technical and non political and was just a means to bring three directives together .
"consumers are entitled to accurate , relevant , understandable and comparable information on the composition of textile products ."
this will allow social decisions on purchasing choices to be made .
the application of this regulation could see an increase in the competitiveness of smes .
i say that to illustrate how important thread and fabric are .
this is not just a technical issue .
we are not debating a technical report here .
"we need to know where a product comes from , where it was made ."
themade inlabel is not a technical issue .
"it is , I think , above all , a highly political issue ."
"we here , as citizens of the european union , are not technocrats walking around with our eyes closed ."
"we are people who think , legislate and act on behalf of other people ."
i think that our contribution will play a major role here .
"however , we really must take care not to mix up two different things here ."
i am speaking specifically aboutmade inorigin marking .
where does this product come from ?
can we succeed in arriving at a rule for consumers ?
i would be very grateful if the two matters could be rapidly disentangled again in the second reading .
i believe that we must all agree on this positive aspect that has emerged from this report .
"all too often , newspaper stories have drawn our attention to cases of allergies in children and women ."
"if this regulation does not come about , then we will all be disadvantaged somewhat ."
"those who buy must know what they are buying , and those who seek quality must find quality !"
"however , it is also important to have an idea of the social sustainability of what we are buying ."
it is very complex to get our labelling correct .
i watched a very disturbing report on cnn about the state of the pearl river in china .
what is the sense of this dual track system ?
"we must be proud of this statement , and must ensure that it is introduced straight away ."
the labelling is also very important .
"now we have come a long way since then , but we need to go further ."
the points made particularly by lara comi regarding products from third countries are very important .
"we have been far too stringent regarding our own countries , and not so with third countries ."
so I welcome that .
"finally , the suggestion about having the same sizes right across the european union is a very good one ."
"we want to fight against social dumping and child labour , and protect social rights and the environment ."
commission's position on amendments by parliament
manders report
"the commission cannot accept amendments 19 , 37 , 38 , 63 , 68 and 7i think that it erodes democracy if we reach an agreement even before the discussion in plenary ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow tuesday , 18 may 2010 ."
written statements rule 149 
i therefore urge the commission to carry out a study to evaluate their effects .
it is also high time that the eu did something aboutradio frequency identification.
"perhaps in future , however , people will simply need to delete their rfid number from google street view ."
"alternatively , the chips might set off security alerts at airports ."
george orwell could not have imagined it we have long overtaken his vision of a surveillance society .
new developments in public procurement short presentation 
allow me to reiterate and highlight the main points of my report .
my report stresses the particularly great significance that public procurement has in times of crisis .
"unfortunately , this is at the expense of innovation and quality ."
numerous studies show this to be the case .
the commission has some urgent reworking to do here .
better coordination within the commission is also urgently needed .
"these judgments do not give contracting authorities a blank cheque , but rather provide them with a clear framework ."
"this , too , was something I sought to reiterate in my report ."
my position on the matter has not changed .
that is also something that I wanted clearly reiterated in my report .
"instead , the commission has instituted new legal proceedings against the netherlands in respect of precisely such mistakes ."
i notice that several speakers would like to express their opinions .
remember that you each have one minute .
it was a pleasure to work with her on this report .
one specific point to be raised mrs rühle has already raised it is that of service concessions .
this is a sensitive point that has also caused some controversy within the commission .
"at this moment in time , nothing else could justify major legislative initiatives on this matter ."
this is a shortcoming of the report that we naturally find very regrettable .
one point that we are absolutely unable to accept is the rejection of service concessions .
we cannot simply say that it is something we do not want .
the court of justice has already ruled on all this .
it is highly unpolitical .
"that is our demand and consequently , we have submitted an alternative resolution ."
we ask our fellow members to support this alternative resolution .
ro I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for all her efforts on this report .
i totally concur with the need to simplify european public procurement legislation and increase transparency .
i am concerned by the large number of disputes over public procurement in numerous member states .
"this is why we need a simpler , clearer legislative framework to facilitate matters on both sides ."
i would also like to comment on the problem of the lowest price .
the legislative review must therefore take into account this fact and introduce far greater flexibility for public procurers .
"in my opinion , we should support the basic principle of that aim ."
ro the public procurement market at eu level is worth 16 % of the eu's gdp .
the internal market assumes that any european company can access acquisitions made in any member state .
we consider it essential to simplify standards and achieve greater legal certainty .
i welcome these new developments that will allow us to have the greatest possible transparency in the process .
the comments made in the report will be duly taken into account in the preparation of new initiatives .
"work has already begun on some initiatives , which are in response to those comments ."
the commission services have begun an ex post evaluation of the public procurement directives .
this evaluation is a prerequisite for any legislative initiative on the matter .
"in order to ensure the competitiveness of european industry , reciprocity is at the heart of all our negotiations ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow tuesday , 18 may 2010 ."
the eu policy coherence for development and theofficial development assistance plus concept short presentation 
"mr president , policy coherence for development means not giving with one hand and taking away with the other ."
"at the moment , we that is , the eu per se are not particularly coherent ."
the eu has long recognised in theory that political measures must not be contradictory .
policy coherence for development is laid down in the treaty of lisbon .
let us be judged by this requirement .
"this year , we are reviewing the progress made towards achieving the millennium development goals ."
it is obvious that we will not be able to keep our promises unless our policies are coherent .
we all of us that adopt and transpose legislation need to be aware of this responsibility .
"we need expertise in the council , the commission and in parliament that can recognise incoherent aspects ."
the commission's work programme on policy coherence is a good step in this direction .
it is now a matter of how this plan is implemented .
it means that we must dry up streams of money that flow from developing countries into tax havens .
"so far , the commission has not been able to eliminate this suspicion ."
we need the committees to be more joined up and we need a permanent rapporteur .
it states that only four per cent of overseas development aid is dedicated to agriculture .
"i think there is , perhaps unfortunately , an attack on european farmers in this report ."
i do not think that is appropriate .
"i will certainly not be supporting this report on that basis , and I regret that situation ."
i would urge colleagues to note those paragraphs carefully .
"i am talking about development policy , not just official development assistance ."
pt the european union's policies and actions in several areas frequently contradict stated development aid objectives .
this resolution comes at just the right time .
"as you know , the commission has proposed a 12 point action plan to support the millennium development goals ."
policy coherence is not just about recording any negative impact that eu policies may have on the development goals .
that is why the commission has adopted a new and improved approach to policy coherence for development .
this approach links all the eu policies on the matter to five international challenges .
it does not limit the scope of our efforts .
it links the evaluation of policies to real strategic objectives .
the european union and the member states must fulfil their commitments in this area .
"to that end , the commission has proposed to establish a responsibility mechanism within the union ."
this proposal is currently being examined by the member states .
"if we are to make our policies more coherent , we must involve our partners ."
that option must be used far more systematically .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow tuesday , 18 may 2010 ."
written statements rule 149 
that is not in question and the union is fully aware of it .
in writing . I support this resolution on policy coherence for development .
"human rights , labour and environmental standards and tax governance must guide eu negotiations with developing countries ."
penalties for serious infringements against the social rules in road transport short presentation 
this report concerns an important matter .
the rules on tachographs also need to be improved .
it has to be said that the results were sobering .
the penalty for the same offence in different member states varied from eur 500 to eur 5 000 .
this situation cannot continue .
differences in the frequency of checks also result in great uncertainty among drivers and undertakings .
"in times of crisis , undertakings come under increasing pressure ."
there is pressure on prices .
"as we are all aware , this can only be achieved if we have an effective penal system ."
"the penalties must be clear , transparent and , above all , comparable ."
"naturally , they are not always familiar with our systems ."
"it is therefore essential to bring about an exchange of information , and this be based in the commission ."
an agency with general competence for road transport could be responsible for this .
"in this context , I consider it irrelevant which office deals with bringing together checks and results ."
"one thing is clear , however such an office must exist ."
there is one further significant factor to mention before I conclude my comments .
"if we want drivers to comply with rest periods , then we must provide them with the necessary infrastructure ."
"in many member states , there are not really sufficient safe parking areas ."
this report must not be the end of this work .
perhaps it is only the beginning .
"el mr president , I really must congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report ."
the commission welcomes parliament's decision to follow up the report it drafted .
"clearly , this is potentially detrimental to road safety and to competition ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow tuesday , 18 may 2010 ."
written statements rule 149 
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting 
the sitting was closed at 21.40 
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 09.05 
composition of parliament see minutes
composition of political groups see minutes
the next item is the joint debate on 
powers are more clearly defined .
"the european parliament has greater power , and the european union has boosted its standing both externally and internally ."
utilisation of these democratic means must not be dependent on the possession of large financial resources .
the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has a specific financial impact on some european institutions .
the treaty of lisbon has a direct or indirect effect on all of the european parliament's services .
"in the conciliation proceedings with the presidency of the european parliament , we managed to find eur 4 million ."
"this is the challenge for us , the european parliament , just as it is for other european institutions ."
"where is there controversy , however ?"
"i repeat that that is for assistants , not for members of this house ."
that would total eur 13.2 million .
we have reduced energy consumption by 0.8 % .
excellence in lawmaking is parliament's principle goal .
"there are even those who insinuate that mepsallowances are increasing , which is not true ."
"one , of course , is the 20 % threshold ."
this is even though we all recognise that the lisbon treaty has given us more responsibilities .
i think the other controversial issue for us which is outstanding is the office holders allowance .
i think that is an important principle and one we would all want to support .
colleagues themselves will decide whether these two compromises are acceptable to them or not .
i believe the majority of the s & d group will find those compromises acceptable to them .
"for the 2011 budget , some attempts at making these savings have been made ."
"indeed , the overall increase has come down from 6.5 % to around 5.8 % ."
"that is welcome , but I believe we need to do much more in the future ."
it is probably more balanced than was originally intended .
that is an area in which we need to improve .
we also oppose the idea that the chairs of the committees should be given an entertainment allowance .
that is not what it is about at all .
"in the final event , it is only about cost increases ."
i completely disagree with him in this regard .
this must be signalled according to the maximwe have understood ! 
"we are all aware of increased competences , but more competences do not necessarily require more spending ."
"it requires more efficient spending , more accountability and more responsibility ."
"i completely agree with mrs trüpel , who said that there are ways to make additional savings ."
we do not need a fleet of cars here in strasbourg .
we have free public transportation .
i use the tram every day .
"instead of using business class tickets , we can use economy class in order to make savings ."
but today I will refer to the ethics of this house .
"coincidentally , the council has failed to approve budget increases for parliament ."
"we must acknowledge that this was anything but an easy task , as witnessed by today's debate ."
the parliamentary decisions which we are discussing today are relevant to the economic situation .
"fellow members , we still have reserves available ."
the previous speaker is right .
i am profoundly convinced that the budget of the european parliament should be significantly increased .
"nl madam president , parliament's draft budget for 2011 is eur 1.7 billion ."
"madam president , eur 6 400 is a huge amount of money ."
i can think of a hundred things it would be better spent on than this puppetry .
"most importantly , however , citizens themselves must be able to take such decisions ."
"let us shut up shop in brussels , luxembourg and , primarily , strasbourg today ."
"that is what should happen , but it does not ."
"in this house , more is always better ."
"via handshakes , like knows like , shadowy deals in back rooms , tens of millions are added to the budget ."
"the elite decides , and the public coughs up ."
"if you are not worth yours , then you have my sympathy ."
anyone who works in this house needs staff .
we must examine whether we thus want to and are able to continue these activities .
"i am also thinking , in this regard , above all , about the web tv service ."
"i think that we have to take action , that we cannot leave everything as it is ."
the committee on budgetary control will do everything in its power to point out where things are not working .
this is totally unacceptable .
"we should be talking about massive savings , not increases ."
there are many ways in which this could be done .
"for a start , we should be cutting unnecessary waste and expenditure ."
this house should demand that council end the strasbourg circus and save annual costs of over eur 200 million .
any other organisation in straitened times would meet new priorities with compensating reductions elsewhere .
we seem to think that we live in a different world .
we need to take the necessary steps to bring about real changes and real cuts in parliament's budget .
"that committee has very many legislative tasks under the codecision , or ordinary legislative , procedure ."
i would like to thank everyone who expressed an opinion .
each one of us has his or her own opinion as to where and how we might improve things .
today's debate bears witness to this .
i would like to say to mr bokros that there is a way to achieve savings through objective methods .
"this way was blocked one year ago by members of your political group , among others ."
"since january , I have been the head of a regional authority in my own country ."
this audit will eliminate duplication and reduce administrative costs by more than 15 % .
"these institutions are clearly expanding their activities , with greater powers and a greater workload ."
all of that therefore still has to be done .
"my thanks for your advice , and I hope that we all demonstrate prudence as we move forwards ."
"thank you , mrs trüpel ."
"however , this ends the joint debate on the budget ."
thank you for your speeches .
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
the amending budget is the outcome of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon .
"to close , I should like to congratulate vladimir maňka on his excellent report ."
the next item is the joint debate on 
"on 22 october 2009 , we adopted a resolution on the sis ii and the visa information system ."
"the sis ii should have become operational in 200as regards the package of proposals that we are considering , four fundamental questions arise ."
"first , when is this migration to take place ?"
"second , have these tests been concluded ?"
no .
"however , the first test had to be postponed until late january because the prerequisites had not been met ."
it was also thought essential that the following conditions be met before the system becomes operational .
the milestone ii test must be successfully carried out and the operating conditions must be fully met .
third question why is it so urgent for these initiatives to be adopted ?
"for my fourth and final question , what aspects of the proposals have I sought to amend ?"
"first , the insertion of a sunset clause , which the commission had not proposed ."
"we propose that it be set for 31 december 20the global programme management board must also be created , and its management of the sis ii formally integrated ."
"finally , I consider it crucial that the migration process be submitted to parliamentary scrutiny ."
i would like to thank everyone for being extremely cooperative .
"as soon as he joins us , I will give him the floor ."
we are working very closely and very well together on this .
we all have a common interest in sis ii working .
"in the absence of mr tavares , I give the floor to commissioner malmström ."
the vote tomorrow is very timely for the sis ii project .
it will be available for the council on 3 and 4 june .
the rapporteur calls for a specific deadline for sis ii development .
"the proposal will make sure that this will continue whilst streamlining the board's role , composition and procedures ."
"this is , of course , entirely within the discretion of the budgetary authority ."
i am sorry that mr tavares is not yet here .
"for these groups of refugees , resettlement can be the only solution ."
"today , resettlement is carried out , but there is no structural coordination at eu level ."
the proposal tabled in september 2009 aims to improve the situation .
we are very satisfied by the very positive response that parliament and the council have given to the proposal .
it is crucial that we maintain this positive momentum and that the adoption of the proposal is not delayed .
"we regret , however , that certain divergences and procedural issues are hampering the rapid adoption of this proposal ."
this proposal is of great political significance .
"thank you , commissioner , for your update ."
we are talking about a single asylum area and the integrated refugee management policy that we need .
the european response to global resettlement requirements has been adequate to date .
"of course , protection for human rights and our real solidarity with third countries are a top priority objective ."
"at some point , commissioner , we expect an initiative from the commission on this issue ."
"madam president , I would like to thank mrs malmström for being here ."
we need to overcome this collective amnesia .
a commission from parliament has visited the iraqi palestinians .
of course they have we need to make a commitment to these refugees .
it is very important to make clear which people this relates to .
"it relates to people who do not , themselves , have the power to come to europe ."
we must therefore be sensible .
"madam president , I would like to speak about the schengen information system ."
i would say that the warning lights are all flashing red on the subject .
"commissioner , the least we can say is that the tests have been inconclusive in this regard ."
"we must take precautions in the area of data protection for all citizens , whoever they may be ."
we must have a minimum commitment on file connection risks .
we in france are well aware of the abuses that can result from file connection .
"commissioner , under the current circumstances , the gue / ngl group cannot support such a migration ."
"such a scheme would merely encourage more refugees , genuine or not , to come to the european union ."
the increase in the numbers of members of this place requires a complete re ratification of the lisbon treaty .
who is missing from that list ?
"europe is missing , that is who ."
the first new addition is a dual approach .
we saw fit to maintain these priorities but give them autonomy .
what situations are priorities ?
the second new feature is modulation .
the other two new features are procedural .
"i am , in fact , astonished at how this programme has not existed on a european level before ."
we can learn a lot from them .
"thus far , this is still a pilot project , one that concerns malta ."
"madam president , I shall also speak on the schengen information system ."
now it seems that the long sis ii saga is far from being finished .
we see time delays and cost overruns we do not have any positive results .
"in our opinion , the approach taken by the rapporteur is absolutely right ."
we must also maintain a sunset clause .
we cannot continue investing money into a lifelong project .
that is not my evaluation it is the evaluation of the federal republic of germany .
we do not want an extension of the deadline to 2013 we want to make that very plain .
"instead , we want to abandon this system and start the search for an alternative ."
"in germany , there is a requirement that the secret services and the police are separated ."
"that is something that I needed to mention , at least from the german point of view ."
that is neither purposive nor proportionate .
"yet this measure also represents part of a wider process , whose aim is the international protection of refugees ."
"in this context , collaboration with member states may be decisive in ensuring that procedures are streamlined and flexible ."
"in my opinion , the ideal coordinator appears to be the european asylum support office ."
"finally , I would like to express my confidence in commissioner malmström's ability to resolve these complicated issues ."
"es madam president , I will explain my position succinctly ."
i would first like to congratulate mr coelho .
the main problem is a lack of solidarity within the union .
"these measures , which I support in principle , mr tavares , require a detailed prior financial study ."
that is why our parliament must vote overwhelmingly in favour of these amendments to the european refugee fund .
"how can it be that , despite this , the resettlement of refugees in the eu is being promoted ?"
"the entire eu asylum concept is a disaster , as far as I am concerned ."
this cannot be achieved within individual countries .
the adoption of a common european union initiative is dictated by the increased strategic use of resettlement .
"a sound , well targeted programme is required , which will be effective and of good quality ."
this programme will provide a suitable framework for ensuring that member states will participate in the refugee resettlement process .
the efforts made by member states to admit refugees must be supported and encouraged with additional financial incentives .
these measures will enable us to show greater solidarity from the eu in relation to the global refugee issue .
we will also encourage the participation of a significant number of member states in this process .
who is it that needs to show solidarity ?
the argument that we need immigration to counter the lack of children would then finally be superfluous .
sk I would like to talk about the schengen information system .
i agreed this earlier on with your colleague .
the president cut off the speaker 
"mr ehrenhauser , I think you are speaking on the wrong subject ."
this is the joint debate on the schengen agreement .
"pl above all , I would like to congratulate mr coelho on two more successful reports ."
"secondly , there can be no turning back from sis ii today ."
i will remind everyone that the new visa code stipulates that biometric data must be shown in the system .
sis 1 + does not give this guarantee .
sis ii will enable rapid verification of data in future .
"so in this area of security , we must not stop work on sis ii ."
"of course , we might wish that this work could be more effective and more successful ."
"in relation to this , work on sis ii must be continued ."
thank you .
it is a complex dossier and very difficult .
we are preparing for a hopefully successful milestone 2 test on sis later this autumn .
we hope it will not be needed but we have made that preparation as well .
we can inspire member states to make more intelligent use of the funds and to coordinate this with unhcr .
"unhcr estimates there was a need for resettlement , last year alone , for 747 000 people ."
"as mr flautre said , what we can do is a help but the needs are enormous ."
several members made reference to internal solidarity .
"this is , of course , related , but is a slightly different subject ."
i recognise the need for this as well .
the commission has already made proposals in this regard .
we have the malta pilot project and are evaluating this .
i am looking forward to working with you to conclude them as soon as possible .
many thanks for the positive comments by various fellow members .
"after all the delays , indefinitely extending the commission's mandate does not make any sense ."
i agree with your idea that the global programme management board must not be an assembly .
i therefore understand the commission's reservations about limiting access to its work I could not agree more .
"madam president , my thanks to the members who have taken part in the debate and to the commissioner ."
i think that gives us the right degree of urgency for this debate .
this approach must also resolve many of the bureaucratic issues with coordination that we have today .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place at noon today .
written statements rule 149 
"however , there is another debate which needs to be held ."
"for over ten years , europe has seen an influx of large numbers of refugees and waves of immigration ."
"if nothing else , the rapporteur's report recognises the problem ."
let us hope that europe gradually discovers solidarity .
we must bear in mind that any delay here will harm our innocent fellow men .
we must consolidate it and make it sustainable .
"we have changed the name on the screen , as you have seen ."
"maybe at some point , the commission could discuss the fact that the competent commissioners should be here ."
"that , too , is a subject for the framework agreement ."
i am sure that mrs malmström will be a wonderful representative .
"member of the commission . madam president , thank you for your understanding ."
the diversification must allow an indigenous development that would create stability and well being in these regions .
it is in this context that we welcome this report on specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions .
we all know what a key role agriculture plays in the local economy .
we and the european union must ensure that we are selfsufficient in agriculture everywhere in europe .
this is vital for security and biodiversity .
these regions have permanent handicaps and we need to recognise this .
what will be left when these five years are up ?
the restrictions and constraints that affect the outermost regions are permanent .
i am going to talk about the canary islands .
"i am thinking about numerous products tomatoes , bananas , and the livestock sector ."
"unfortunately , there was no consensus on this position at the last trialogue ."
this is regrettable for two reasons .
"at that point , I will again request an exemption in the other french overseas departments ."
"in the last electoral term , I was the shadow rapporteur for reform of the sugar market ."
"without our support , this small agricultural holding could not stay in existence ."
the way the report has now been drawn up provides good conditions for achieving these goals .
my heartfelt thanks go to all those who have been involved .
"there are three particularly important agricultural sectors sugar beets , dairy products and wine production ."
"for them , it will guarantee the sustainability of the industry ."
"however , I would have preferred the safeguards recommended in committee to have been kept ."
"still on milk , I agree with our fellow member , mr tirolien ."
"we have reached a turning point , however ."
we saw that most recently from the last time that russia turned off the gas .
"i believe that can only be done if agriculture is , to a certain extent , re nationalised ."
"specifically , in the azores , the issue of milk quotas is very important ."
"mr president , I am happy to see a report on helping agriculture in the outermost regions of europe ."
"there is no doubt that geographical location , distance from markets and other such factors create many difficulties ."
the economic crisis has also had an impact .
"in northern ireland , the dairy and beef industry has been greatly affected by imports ."
this has resulted in price volatility and great financial losses for farmers .
"last week , I attended the royal agricultural show in northern ireland ."
"mr president , I welcome proposals to help the outermost regions ."
so I welcome any proposals to help them .
i also want to add my voice to those who expressed concern about the mercosur proposals .
"these could do enormous damage to the outermost regions , and indeed every region ."
i think that it is time that the european union got stronger and fairer with its own farmers .
some decisions will even be applied retroactively .
that is why and I am also answering mr tirolien here we have not introduced other amendments .
"we preferred to move quickly , and I had several discussions with mr alves on this subject ."
"moreover , I am sure that we will be able to do so ."
that does not mean that the cap should not be adapted .
it must be substantially adapted in order to take account of precisely these changes that european agriculture faces .
allow me to briefly enumerate the improvements achieved .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12.00 .
written statements rule 149 
the european union's island and outermost regions are facing a number of problems at the moment .
this is why specific measures are required to promote their future social and economic development .
milk is the azoresmain agricultural product .
i wish to emphasise that sending the maximum volumes of sugar beet to europe must still be encouraged .
the sitting was suspended at 11.35 and resumed at 12.05 
establishment of a european asylum support office 
the energy performance of buildings recast 
the establishment of a joint eu resettlement programme 
key competences for a changing world implementation of the education and training 2010 work programme 
deontological questions related to companiesmanagement 
before the vote 
it was due for debate last night under catch the eye .
"i think it is highly improper , therefore , to take a vote on this unknown , undebated motion ."
an eu strategy for youth investing and empowering 
before the vote 
"el madam president , ladies and gentlemen , these are critical times for the whole of europe ."
"optimism about the future of europe means young people with opportunities , skills and qualifications ."
my thanks to the shadow rapporteurs from all the groups for their cooperation and the unanimity which we achieved .
applause 
equal treatment between self employed men and women 
textile names and related labelling of textile products 
macro financial assistance for ukraine 
before the vote 
"in trying to reach that agreement , we were operating under a very tight timetable ."
we also insisted on the importance of parliament being kept duly informed about the actual implementation of the assistance .
applause 
the president cut off the speaker 
specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the union 
estimates of revenue and expenditure for the year 2011 section I parliament 
before the vote 
there has been a misunderstanding .
"we reject all the amendments , except our own ."
"ms haug , thank you for that ."
it looks as though the leadership of your group is well aware of the situation .
simplification of the cap 
new developments in public procurement 
the eu policy coherence for development and theofficial development assistance plus concept
before the vote on paragraph 34 
it seems to me this will make more sense .
thank you very much .
penalties for serious infringements against the social rules in road transport 
voting time
the next item is the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
it pulls the wool over people's eyes .
"this kind of thing must be combated , and a joint resettlement programme by no means offers a solution ."
"it is mainly old buildings that are a problem , of course , and not just blocks of flats ."
"yesterday , my colleague , marian jean marinescu , mentioned a special fund ."
the provision of additional resources in a time of crisis is questionable .
i would like to say that the voting equipment showed that I abstained .
"on the other hand , we must fight more effectively against illegal migration ."
"now to the schengen item , if I may ."
"nevertheless , this report provides clear outlines which countries should follow ."
"even domestic parliaments can do this , thanks to the treaty of lisbon ."
"it is a matter of resolving the technical definitions , which parliament cannot do very well itself ."
i therefore voted against the parts in question .
it committed budgetary funds for aid to banana producers in those regions .
"although we should welcome such support , for many banana producers , this support will not be enough ."
"however , I want to comment on the winding up remarks made by commissioner cioloş ."
we are having this reopening of talks at a time when we are reforming agricultural policy .
the budget is under threat .
we may not have a sufficient budget and yet we are facing further disruption of farm prices and incomes .
"it does not make sense , and I hope the commissioner hears these views ."
claims for such payments should be enforceable in a court of law by both farmers and clients .
elements that are not meaningful and appropriate must be dismantled and simplified .
"this is the case , in particular , for the often very complicated and disputed cross compliance regulations ."
our stated goal is to make agricultural policy simpler and more transparent .
one of the key things we hear about all the time is the bureaucracy involved in the industry .
legislation must be meaningful to farmers and we must not restrict farmers from food production .
"this legislation needs urgent attention , and more common sense is needed ."
i think it is over 17 different directives .
perhaps we should ask ourselves in this house how well we legislate for simplification .
i welcome this report .
"we therefore need clear , workable and comprehensible models ."
we also need trust between the farming population and the government in order to be able to make headway .
anything involving an educational approach to a particular topic should involve simplification rather than complication .
so I welcome this proposal .
so this is a step in the right direction .
i hope that the other member states will also make it their concern .
"it is a matter of the environment , and it is a matter of costs ."
energy saving and energy efficiency effectively represent a source of energy production .
"green investments for our children , not radioactive waste !"
i will now move on to the explanation of vote for the rühle report .
cs public procurement is unfortunately an area suffering from one of the highest levels of corruption .
i was happy to back the report by heide rühle calling for a simplification of public procurement .
"competition will not be efficient , fair and accessible to small and medium sized enterprises ."
"also , where does this parliament sit ?"
the commission responded with export refunds as an emergency measure .
we are reducing production in europe .
that has a consequence for the developing world .
we need to heed it .
"mrs mcguinness , you were exactly right on the rules ."
you are correct .
"madam president , I just want to say that I agree with my colleague ms mcguinness ."
i think ms mcguinness has explained why .
this solution lies in the harmonisation and interpretation of the legislation .
"this can be found in paragraph 17 , as amended ."
"i encourage you , therefore , to report your complaints to this desk provided by euro contrôle route ."
written explanations of vote
there are still far too many accidents on europe's roads .
this proposal is part of the union's legislative efforts towards establishing a european asylum system .
i support the rapporteur's proposal to include the offering of support on resettlement .
"issues relating to immigration and , especially , the right to asylum are particularly sensitive ."
i call for the mechanisms and resources necessary to establish the asylum support office to be ensured quickly .
this will remain a pious hope until common asylum procedures are adopted .
it is vital for us to harmonise both our asylum laws and practices .
this office will be responsible for providing specialised assistance .
"its role will involve coordination , information exchange and actions relating to the resettling of refugees ."
we meps reserve the fundamental right to appoint its executive director .
that is why I voted as I did .
"as a result , the support would also be helpful for resettlement ."
"the present report treats this element , which I find very important , only as a subordinate issue ."
i have therefore abstained from voting .
i express my support for the proposal to create a european asylum support office .
solidarity within the community will be assured by an agreement between member states with the consent of stakeholders .
"today , we are giving the go ahead to the establishment of the european asylum support office ."
it will have multiple benefits .
the asylum support office will make a decisive contribution to the integration of a single european asylum area .
i voted resolutely in favour of its adoption .
this directive is a good compromise between encouragement and constraint where environmentally responsible construction is concerned .
"however , reclassification requires increased public and private investment ."
i also call on them to find the appropriate financing model for renovating existing buildings .
we spend 50 % of our lives in our homes .
"it is therefore important not only to promote new sustainable buildings , but also to carry out sustainable renovation ."
existing buildings will have to be improved if possible .
"for the democratic movement , the housing issue is also one of urbanism and build quality ."
we must give priority to the way in which our homes are designed .
"furthermore , energy savings for energy efficient buildings average 30 % over conventional buildings ."
"moreover , this strategy will create jobs and contribute to sustainable growth ."
the basic factors affecting energy performance are conversion of one form of energy into another so that it can be put to a specific use .
"the longer the chain of conversions , the greater the losses ."
"in practice , this mainly concerns the stream of heat energy released from primary energy sources ."
a large part of this passes into the environment .
"electrical resistance , or ohm's resistance , which is important in the transmission of electrical energy ."
thermal resistance .
"at the moment , it is quite high around 40 % of the total energy used ."
"friction in anti friction processes , such as in bearings , and in friction processes such as brakes ."
this concerns mainly cars and turbulence in aeroplanes .
friction losses are around 30 % of total energy .
"in poland's case , thermal modernisation , alongside cogeneration , can bring economic , social and ecological benefits ."
these texts also stipulate that energy saving must be a fundamental element in the renovation of buildings .
the issue of energy efficiency is crucial to the 2020 strategy .
it will also be crucial for a good example to be set in public construction projects .
that is why I voted as I did .
"the impact of energy demand cannot be clearly estimated , for which reason I votedno."
the building sector was identified by the eu as one of the markets with the highest energy saving potential .
energy savings for energy efficient buildings average 30 % over conventional buildings .
"in lithuania alone , there are over 35 000 apartment blocks ."
"their inhabitants not only pay huge sums for heating , but are also responsible for tonnes of co2 emissions ."
the conservative government in lithuania is incapable of beginning building insulation .
"after almost two years of promises that renovation will start imminently , not one building has been renovated ."
"this will guarantee that in time , eu buildings become sustainable from an energy point of view ."
i express my support for the recommendation to improve the energy efficiency of buildings .
"energy efficiency means not only saving energy , but also reducing co2 and greenhouse gas emissions ."
research in the construction sector is moving towards a greener approach to building .
"in mediterranean countries , these new technologies are not spreading at the same pace ."
"to be precise , energy savings for efficient buildings average 30 % over conventional buildings ."
"in addition , energy efficient buildings use less water and offer lower maintenance costs and utility bills ."
this also involves applying these requirements to existing buildings .
partial funding will be provided from the eu budget to encourage energy efficiency measures .
member states must adopt suitable measures in order to implement this directive quickly .
public buildings must set an example by complying with this legislation before 31 december 20the eu budget will fund part of the costs of the reforms .
another important new element is including smart meters and control and management systems focused on saving energy .
the directive will be revised before 20the construction sector is one with tremendous energy saving potential .
the sector is responsible for 40 % of energy consumption and 35 % of total greenhouse gas emissions .
improving the energy efficiency of buildings is the most effective way of reducing energy consumption and emissions .
this agreement deserves our full support .
"by 31 december 2020 at the latest , all new buildings must be nearly zero energy ."
all public sector buildings must achieve this two years earlier .
minimum energy performance requirements will even apply from now on when older buildings are renovated .
nearly zero energy buildings are buildings with very high energy performance .
this directive represents an important contribution to the fight against climate change .
the stockholm programme provides for the creation of a reliable and sustainable common asylum policy in the european union .
it should be further developed and expanded into an effective protection instrument by the eu .
the eu must make its voice heard as far as migration and integration are concerned .
"resettlement cannot and must not , however , be divorced from a shared line of action against illegal immigration ."
this is one of the eligible criteria under the erf .
"this must be done , however , without neglecting the legitimate limits set by the member states ."
one of theeligible actionsof the european refugee fund erf is resettlement .
"particular attention must be given to the victims of the most repressive cultural , social and political systems ."
"only 10 eu member states , including portugal , accept refugees for resettlement ."
the unhcr's figures confirm this .
it is for that reason that I voted against this report .
i therefore voted against this report .
i therefore support the setting up of a fund at european level .
i think it is essential to increase financial assistance for countries which are engaged in helping refugees .
all of these amendment proposals were rejected .
"in reality , the exact opposite is the case ."
governments fail in the reception and care of refugees .
"the misery of these poorest people is an affront to affluent europe , and so we return them ."
the christian organisations are a thorn in the eye of our conscience .
the report on the schengen information system and its modernisation contributes to this magnificent breakthrough in free intra european movement .
i logically voted for this report .
it is indeed regrettable that the start of this system has been delayed .
"however , it is necessary to seek the approval of all of the institutions ."
i voted broadly in favour of the proposed amendments to this regulation .
it also raises doubts about the lack of transparency in the way the process has been handled .
thesagaof migration from sis I to sis ii has simply gone on for too long .
"however , this report is still unacceptable ."
how can the suspicion of the will to commit a terrorist act be deemed valid ?
"worst of all , the united states could be given access to this data ."
it is time to stop pouring money into the money pit and to rescue what can still be rescued .
"until we have a functioning schengen information system , the schengen area must not be expanded ."
i express my full support for the report by mr coelho .
"parliament has been demanding exact and up to date information on how this report is coming on , and rightly so ."
i voted for this report since the question of refugees in the community is still very relevant .
i voted for the european parliament's own initiative report on the establishment of a joint eu resettlement programme .
this report also indicates our disagreement with the council's vision .
the latter wishes to take refugeesnationality as the basis for deciding who has priority to be resettled .
the latter must always have priority .
it is essential that the european union has a fair and realistic migration policy .
the resettlement programme may help to make illegal immigration less attractive to refugees seeking to enter the european union .
"for this reason , access to educational and professional guidance services is essential ."
"however , I completely reject refugees seeking asylum on political grounds within the eu ."
"despite the previously mentioned reservations , I back the entire report ."
european citizens should not be deceived by the title of this report by resettlement .
how can we trust the un and the first countries of asylum to organise such a check ?
"according to the unhcr , there are 750 000 people in the world who could claim asylum ."
"do we have to receive all of them in our countries , on the orders of this organisation ?"
this is completely irresponsible .
"only 10 eu member states , including portugal , accept refugees for resettlement ."
the creation of this programme constitutes an important step in that direction .
allow me to express my support for the report by mr tavares .
i believe that procedures for conferring refugee status should be harmonised to achieve this end .
we cannot have discrepancies over this definition at european level .
it therefore seems to me that a common programme would take us in the right direction .
"in fact , it is very important to build solidarity between the eu and third countries on refugee issues ."
the pilot programme in malta is a very good example in this direction .
it is good that a joint eu resettlement programme has been established .
the member states should adopt a more ambitious programme which will ensure the quality and effectiveness of resettlement .
the report also discusses the challenges identified by thenew skills for new jobsinitiative .
"unfortunately , the guidelines identified in the lisbon strategy will not be implemented until the end of 20secondly , I call for more efforts to increase literacy and encourage skills upgrading for people from disadvantaged backgrounds ."
"since the lisbon strategy , education and training policies have been becoming increasingly important within the european union ."
there must be less focus on stating shared positions that are as hollow as they are well intentioned .
in writing . I and my british conservative colleagues can agree with much of this report .
"in addition , education policy is , and should remain , the preserve of individual nation states ."
"for this reason , we voted against this report ."
the text presents a global approach to upgrading and adapting education to modern requirements .
"moreover , the learning of foreign languages is crucially important ."
"as an english teacher , I am particularly aware of this ."
modern higher education should prepare students thoroughly with a view to entering the labour market .
"from this point of view , therefore , education is very important ."
it is also essential to adopt effective measures to increase the representation of women in science and scientific research .
"education has important social functions , opens doors and offers prospects for a better future ."
"our hopes are pinned on young people , so we have to treat this group as a priority ."
the global economic crisis means that we are being forced to adapt once again .
vocational education and training must be adapted to the needs of the labour market .
we must fill the gap .
"that is a long term struggle , but it is something worth fighting for ."
that is why I voted as I did .
i express my support for the report by mr lehne .
the recent financial crisis has illustrated the need to analyse issues related to pay policies of company directors .
"in order to achieve this , we must introduce uniform and global guidelines ."
i would have liked to have seen the european parliament make more ambitious demands .
it is very important to ensure a youth perspective in the post 2010 lisbon and europe 2020 strategies .
the financial crisis has been having a serious impact on the lives of young people .
"i therefore welcome the renewed youth strategy , which puts the well being of future generations on the political agenda ."
the members of the european parliament play a crucial role in promoting european youth policies in the member states .
this cannot be allowed to continue .
i support mr papanikolaou's report onan eu strategy for youth investing and empowering.
i would stress the role of informing young people about sex education issues in protecting their health .
i voted for the report onan eu strategy for youth investing and empowering.
these are concerns that must be present in any european strategy for youth .
we also advocated the promotion of opportunities for lifelong learning .
the first job is very important .
"the eu should better inform , develop and implement the instruments that it already has at its disposal ."
"unemployment , temporary work , internships ."
what kind of prospects await the younger generation ?
what life expectations ?
"working intermittently , often underpaid , and doing jobs that are far below their level of education ."
no prospects of a pension .
what does the future hold in store for them ?
"madam president , ladies and gentlemen , it is young people who are bearing the brunt of this crisis ."
they are disillusioned and alarmed by the possibility that they will be cut out of the job market .
there is no point hiding behind good intentions and promises .
young people are asking for facts .
and it is our duty to give them proper answers .
"we must invest we must provide certainties , offer opportunities ."
we must redouble our efforts we must put young people at the centre of our european policies .
"if there is no future for young people , there is no future for society as a whole ."
i urge the member states to take the new youth strategy seriously and implement the proposed measures vigorously .
the strategy should also serve to empower young people and increase their participation in society .
"furthermore , no policy can truly function without cross sectoral implementation ."
all relevant actors across sectors need to work together to make the strategy a success .
this must sound an alarm bell for both member states and the european union as a whole .
this is precisely the reason why I voted for the draft report compiled by mr papanikolaou .
i therefore advocate an ever greater commitment to youth policies at eu level .
that is why I voted as I did .
"young people , in particular , are especially hard hit by the current crisis ."
"in the face of rising youth unemployment , it is important to improve educational opportunities ."
i have therefore abstained from voting .
another problem is the incompatibility of the education system with the needs of the labour market .
we should give them a second chance .
"unfortunately , the unemployment rate among young people is high , and inequalities in the labour market persist ."
there are definitely more problems than those I have mentioned .
an effort that is our duty .
an endless duty towards future generations . 
"this is what is expected of us , today , and it is what we should do ."
i agree with the view expressed by mr papanikolaou .
the creation of a new eu strategy for youth is of crucial importance .
this is an essential factor when it comes to offering future generations of european citizens a promising future .
"the economic crisis is having profound effects on young people , and represents a threat to their future prosperity ."
the ageing population will also have a strong impact on their future .
these arestrategicchallenges which needstrategicattention from decision makers in all eu countries .
i endorsed the eu strategy for youth with complete conviction and with certainty as to its success .
it is imperative to improve the situation of young people and their educational and vocational chances .
three matters are crucial in this regard .
"in the future , these programmes should receive greater financial support ."
investment in the education of young people is the best possible use of the eu budget .
i also appeal for improvement and full implementation of the erasmus mundus programme .
it is essential to give financial assistance to those who cannot afford to complete tertiary education .
it is also important to help young people by making their access to the labour market easier .
young people are more vulnerable to the adverse effects brought by the current economic situation .
the question of young people is complex and requires the involvement of many policy areas .
"this is why , today , I was delighted to endorse the resolution prepared by mr papanikolaou ."
young people are our future and we should be involving them more in the decision making process at european level .
the global economic crisis came as a painful blow to us all .
the saddest thing is the fact that the strongest blow was borne by those on whom our future depends .
the financial tsunami of the last few years has made most young people unemployed or underemployed .
now we have the chance to turn the crisis into an opportunity .
we owe it to the future generation of europeans .
"as the name of the report suggests , we can achieve that by investing and providing opportunities ."
education and employment are the principal areas from an investment point of view .
we need to facilitate a smoother transition between education and the labour market .
"however , the impact of this essential investment will be limited unless we provide our young people with opportunities ."
we must encourage our young people to become more active citizens both socially and politically .
voter turnout among young people is very low in eastern europe .
"therefore , we must revive their interest in the political process ."
i fully agree with the suggestion that higher education should be more effectively linked with the labour market .
it was important to strengthen the protection of self employed women .
"once again , the european parliament is guaranteeing the protection of women in their work ."
"as I share this vision , I voted for this report ."
"for the above reasons , I voted for this proposal ."
the issue of maternity protection for self employed women and assisting spouses or recognised partners is very important .
"therefore , I particularly agree with the rapporteur's opinion on the proposals at this directive's second reading ."
we must strengthen and integrate issues surrounding the gender equality dimension in the new strategy .
"in europe , 16 % of the active population are self employed , of which only a third are women ."
"however , if the 1986 directive did not achieve its goals , the current proposal also lacks ambition ."
that must be for all of the member states to decide for themselves .
"in the current economic crisis , it is of the utmost importance that the self employed be supported and encouraged ."
i do not think that there are any grounds for this restriction .
"workers must have the same criteria for accessing public social protection schemes , notably as regards contributions and privileges ."
i would also stress that this recommendation will definitely strengthen incentives to female business entrepreneurship .
"maternity leave must be guaranteed in all the member states and for all women , regardless of their employment ."
the commission's proposal seeks to ensure equal treatment for self employed men and women .
that is why I voted as I did .
no longer can we look on from the sidelines as self employed women or men with families experience social injustice .
i wish to express my support for mrs lulling's report .
the assisting spouse is also granted the right to a social protection scheme on demand .
women play an essential role in sustaining self employed businesses as owners and assisting spouses or life partners .
"however , we do oppose this legislation being made at eu level ."
"for these reasons , the ecr group has abstained on amendments 1 in my opinion , this is essential information that must always be communicated to the consumer ."
"i congratulate the rapporteur , mr manders , for his hard work in bringing together three complex directives ."
"these measures encourage innovation , an element which is in my opinion essential for european companies ."
"the text also protects consumers , whose interests I stress are central to our policies ."
"at last , we have adoptedmade inregulations in the textile sector ."
this goal is closer today and is also in line with the treaty of lisbon goals .
"instead , we support a voluntary labelling system based on consumer demand for origin marking ."
i also consider ecological labelling relating to the environmental performance of textile products important .
the new rules adopted will contribute to greater transparency in international trade and to making things clearer for consumers .
that is why I voted as I did .
"as the report also notes this , it received my support in the vote ."
"the problem does , however , remain open for textile products coming from third countries , our trading partners ."
"in summary , all these amendments go in the direction of wideningmade inprovisions ."
i am not against transparency and traceability of products for the benefit of the consumer .
"nevertheless , as members of the european parliament , we have a responsibility to respect certain regulatory frameworks ."
in writing . I have supported this document .
the relations between the eu and ukraine have always been very close and based upon a constructive dialogue .
macro financial assistance to ukraine is particularly significant at this time .
the community's financial assistance shows that ukraine is strategically important as a potential candidate country for eu accession .
i agree with this decision to provide ukraine with exceptional mfa .
ukraine must have stability .
this economic transition must be supported by efforts aimed at institutional reform .
"ukraine must grasp the nettle on both fronts , no matter how difficult it might seem at the moment ."
i was pleased to vote for parliament's proposal providing macro financial assistance to ukraine .
resolving problems relating to the transit of natural gas across ukrainian territory is strategically important .
i think that the inclusion of the gas transit issue on the european union ukraine association agenda was welcome .
"i firmly believe that this cooperation must be consolidated , which also means finding new forms of cooperation ."
i believe that the european union must not stop pointing out the european way to ukraine .
eu financial support reflects ukraine's strategic importance as a potential candidate country for joining the union .
"i also agree that monitoring mechanisms should be ensured that increase clarity , transparency and accountability ."
the european parliament should be given regular updates on the work of the economic and financial committee .
"by voting this way , we are also expressing our solidarity with the ukrainian people ."
"madam president , ladies and gentlemen , I endorsed the report on macro financial assistance to ukraine ."
a loan of eur 500 million will help ukraine come out of the financial crisis .
whether it will be possible to achieve those objectives depends on the ukrainians themselves .
"i am pleased we have shown , today , that we want to work with them and to help ."
"this includes more than half a million romanians living in northern bukovina , northern maramureş and southern bessarabia ."
it is intolerable that european loans and subsidies are subject to constraints imposed by the imf .
i am voting against the macro financial assistance presented today to the european parliament .
it is not the case that I do not support the people of ukraine .
"in the face of its worsening economic prospects , ukraine has requested macro financial assistance from the union ."
the financial imbalances relate to budgets and the balance of payments .
this aid is important in order for ukraine to tackle the crisis in the most coherent way .
the eu must therefore be an area of solidarity .
that is why I voted as I did .
i therefore voted in favour of the report .
i voted in favour of the report by mr moreira .
the macro financial assistance programme sets out to complement other financing from the union .
the union's financial help reflects the strategic importance of ukraine as a potential candidate for eu membership .
"i agree with the rapporteur's aim of improving the clarity , transparency and documentability of the proposed project ."
"helping ukraine by making eur 500 million available is therefore the right decision strategically , which we will support ."
i hope it will be swiftly delivered in conformity with the conditions underlying the provision .
the macro financial assistance for ukraine is the first case to be decided under the new procedure .
"meanwhile , the delay registered in the decision making process due to the new procedure is regrettable ."
i urge the eu institutions to build upon the experience of granting ukraine macro financial assistance and avoid further delays .
our eastern partners should be spared unnecessary delay .
it will be submitted to the european parliament only this week .
"since their remoteness handicaps their development , the european union must adopt specific compensatory measures ."
there is more than just one outermost region .
"each island , each territory has its own specific character , identity and problems ."
these exemptions will help the outermost regions .
this is what we expect of the commission .
"the changes are related to the sugar , milk and wine sectors ."
i congratulate the rapporteurs involved on the quality of their work .
"the proposed amendments are in line with this principle of solidarity , so I support them ."
this is a fair goal .
"the outermost regions are usually characterised by a low population , small size , stagnation and difficult economic conditions ."
that is why I voted as I did .
the previous criteria for support of these areas must be modified so that they reflect actually existing handicaps .
"of course , all measures must be based on a community framework ."
i believe that the proposed changes are positive for the outermost areas concerned .
it would therefore be advisable to encourage the diversification of economic activities .
the trüpel report on the 2011 budget is a new stage in the european parliament's budget adoption procedure .
"in march , parliament adopted the guidelines for 20i voted against mrs trüpel's report ."
the argument that the treaty of lisbon will bring more work for meps must be proven first .
adequate technical and logistical means are necessary in order for the work to be carried out quickly and efficiently .
"i also advocate a distinction between fixed and variable costs , with the latter justified by a cost benefit analysis ."
this cost benefit analysis is important to ensure better results and resource management .
i would stress that excellence in law making must be parliament's main priority .
all amendments tabled to the report were rejected .
parliament can come back to this issue at the first reading of the 2011 budget in september / october .
here we are already in the budget procedure proper and the vote here will constitute the final result .
"this report reflects a sensible budget , aimed at a policy of the sustainability of parliament ."
"however , it does not fail to have a rigorous approach to the effective use of available resources ."
ukip is committed to trade in agricultural produce under the terms of wto rules .
farmers should be able to focus on their primary responsibility producing high quality products .
"excessive bureaucracy must be cut back if we are to achieve an efficient , competitive agricultural sector in europe ."
"member states should place at the disposal of potential beneficiaries systems that are simple , clear and transparent ."
"therefore , I call on the commission to include this matter in the bilateral discussions with the member states ."
i therefore voted in favour of the report .
"in addition , it is essential to rebuild trust between authorities and farmers ."
"ukip therefore voted against the resolution as a whole , especially as it is without legislative impact ."
farmers have always been the most ardent and steadfast supporters of european union integration .
they firmly believe that the cap still is a common policy in the true sense of the term .
direct payments are therefore vital and must be maintained .
"in general , I voted in favour of the efforts to simplify the common agricultural policy cap ."
simplification has to mean greater responsibility for all the actors involved .
"i would therefore stress the need to transform the cap into a simpler , fairer and more transparent instrument ."
"to start with , I would highlight the proposal to create a uniform system of animal identification ."
"through this regulation , we will also contribute towards creating a new and fair market in agriculture ."
i am in favour of the report submitted .
the simplification of legislation is a goal that is essential to bringing europe closer to the public .
"legal certainty does not require complexity or sluggish processes , but rather simplicity and effectiveness ."
that is exactly what we want for the new cap .
the harmonisation of legislation must be accompanied by the elimination of redundancy .
the report also continues to support the current model for distributing aid .
"furthermore , I agree with a deferral on the obligation of electronic sheep tagging ."
simplifying the principles which define the operation of the common agricultural policy is extremely important .
the cap should not be reduced just to the distribution of money .
farmers do not need more eu direct support they need fairer prices for their products .
"however , I do agree with the essence of the report ."
"the cap is overly complicated and unnecessarily burdensome on farmers , member states and decentralised governments and authorities ."
i voted for this report because I support the need to simplify the cap .
it has to be results orientated and offer a greater capacity to respond .
"at the same time , farmers must be kept well informed and be given more assistance by the authorities ."
the determination shown in the report to simplify the administrative rules of the common agricultural policy is also important .
that is why I voted as I did .
"for the reasons I have expressed above , I voted in favour of the report ."
the simplification measures are therefore recognised as necessary and urgent by everyone .
the elimination of the market management instruments cannot be put forward as one of the means of simplification .
administering the common agricultural policy is often excessively complicated .
"in particular , the animal identification legislation must be reviewed to make it more flexible and less bureaucratic ."
current legislative provisions in this area are far too rigid and counter productive on many occasions .
the cost of monitoring financing will also be lower .
i voted for this report in the chamber today because it attempts to tackle these issues .
"by endorsing this document , we have given expression to our determination over simplification of the common agricultural policy ."
this process is essential to guarantee the right level of competitiveness in the european agricultural sector .
a significant portion of the funds from member statesbudgets is spent on public procurement .
european initiatives on public procurement require coordination at european level to avoid inconsistencies and legal problems .
legal clarification of the conditions under which procurement law applies to institutionalised public private partnerships is also important .
"public authorities must be encouraged to base public procurement on environmental , social and other criteria ."
"contractors , in particular small and medium sized enterprises , demand legal certainty and swift processes ."
"legal clarification is essential , for everyone's benefit ."
that is why I abstained from the final vote on this report .
public procurement in the internal market of the european union represents about 15 % of gdp .
"furthermore , clarification is still required for questions including public private partnerships , town planning and service concessions ."
its purpose is to purchase goods and services at the best price / quality ratio .
"unfortunately , an ever increasing number of member states have encountered such problems ."
"simplified , uniform legislation is required for all member states ."
public procurement is a very delicate matter which deserves to be treated very seriously as it concerns public funds .
that is why I voted as I did .
"procurement also has a significant impact on small and medium sized enterprises , which often act as subcontractors ."
we need coordinated action at european level to counter this effect .
"lastly , I would remind you of the importance of respecting the principle of reciprocity and proportionality ."
i applaud the rapporteur for his work and am voting in favour of this .
it is essential for european policies on development to be coherent .
i therefore voted against this report .
the european union is the biggest aid donor in the world .
the clash between europe's development policies and its trade policies is a reality .
"we aim to change the status quo , and rightly so ."
this consistency must be achieved because it contributes to meeting the development requirements of the needy .
introducing a tobin tax would simply harm developing countries and lead to greater poverty .
one billion four hundred million people in the world survive on less than eur 1 per day .
the european union has a duty to combat this situation .
that requires more efficient and effective development cooperation and assistance policies .
official development assistance oda commitments are still not being fulfilled satisfactorily .
the result of this is that we do not feel able to support the report as a whole .
trade policy cannot be immune to this goal .
i fully recognise the importance of eu development policy and of assistance to developing countries .
i deplore the negative vote of the epp and ecr groups .
"conducting a responsible , effective policy for development should be a key focus for the european parliament ."
the debate on eu policy coherence for development is important and valuable .
this is an important step towards fairer trade .
the european union must set an example in this area .
development aid and poverty eradication are a requirement of the greatest importance that deserve my full support .
our citizens must not be forgotten or subordinated we have special obligations to them .
"in particular , the report proposes a harmonisation of penalties by means of a common categorisation of fines ."
"as I fully support these proposals , I voted in favour of this report ."
this lack of harmonisation undermines the effectiveness of the regulation and introduces considerable legal uncertainty for road hauliers .
"however , standardising the regulations applied to passenger transport would place greater responsibility on transport companies ."
"infringements are a serious problem in road transport , which poses significant questions as regards border crossings ."
it therefore calls on the member states to apply the social rules in road transport in a harmonised way .
we would reaffirm that these objectives are not necessarily achieved through generic harmonisation .
"increased road safety is necessary , as are improved working conditions in the transport sector ."
this will ensure better road safety in each of the member states .
road transport safety has always been a concern of the eu .
the adoption of this resolution is another step towards eliminating serious infringements of the social rules in this area .
that is why I voted as I did .
statistics show that heavy duty vehicles in particular are involved in a high proportion of traffic accidents .
it is therefore that much more important the vehicle be in faultless condition .
"consequently , in the name of general safety , we need to ensure compliance with these regulations ."
"as no expansion of these road safety measures is planned , I votedno."
i therefore voted in favour .
"for the above reasons , I voted for the report brought before parliament today ."
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
the next item is the joint debate on 
"i would especially like to highlight the following points , which were key to our discussion ."
"first , the principles applying to organ donation ."
"at the same time , the greatest possible protection must be ensured for living donors ."
we defended these in the introductory parts of the provision known as the recitals .
"the second principle includes traceability , protection of personal data and confidentiality ."
"this concept has replaced the original proposal for anonymity , which is inimical to the safety of the process ."
personal data must remain confidential .
the third principle is the framework for quality and safety .
it has proved its worth in many countries where operations run smoothly .
"we should never forget , ladies and gentlemen , that without donors , there can be no transplants ."
the first is the proposal for a directive regulating the quality and safety aspects of organs intended for transplantation .
"in other words , it is a framework based on quality , security and innovation ."
this will help to achieve self sufficiency in organ donation and therefore to combat transplant tourism .
let us enhance what the european union means today .
this is why we are here today to ensure high quality and safe organ transplantation across europe .
this is what the commission's proposal for a directive and the action plan are about .
the commission is willing to support the member states in addressing these issues of importance to parliament .
allow me to comment on a few specific issues .
i fully share parliament's concern as regards combating organ trafficking .
"i also understand parliament's concern about transparent , non discriminatory and scientific criteria for organ allocation ."
"however , in the spirit of compromise , the commission can accept the additional clarifications proposed ."
the commission is willing to support the member states to address these issues .
let me also raise another issue adopting a law is the first step .
what really matters is that the law is implemented .
parliament has always supported this .
"finally , several amendments align the proposals to the comitology provisions of the lisbon treaty ."
"to conclude , let me state that the commission is prepared to support the compromise package ."
there are many challenges in the area of the donation and transplantation of human organs .
the line between life and death does not come any clearer than this .
the tasks of the european parliament also include conducting a determined battle against the despicable trade in human organs .
that is also something that we are doing .
i am pleased that the views advanced by the committee on legal affairs have been taken account of .
this report portrays that picture very clearly .
that is precisely the reason why this debate is quite so emotionally charged .
spain has organised this much better with its transplant coordinators .
that is why we should really press home this point in the perello report to the member states .
"that means that this , too , is an important point ."
another very important element in the directive is that we must combat the trade in organs .
this is a subject that we must not simply ignore .
i would ask all my fellow members to also take an interest in this topic .
"with the directive and the action plan , we have sent a clear signal ."
that is why it is our task to put that into practice .
we must guarantee the consent of donors .
twelve of them die every day because they have waited too long .
let us not mistake the objective here .
the hardest question in the talks related to living donors .
"voluntary donations that are free of charge are also the safest option , even for the recipients of organs ."
there can be no crimes associated with the trade in organs unless there are middlemen and the demand .
the most shocking have been the reports that describe people actually being killed .
"for example , australian organ transplant surgeons have condemned the practice in china of killing prisoners for their organs ."
we in europe must do all we can to avoid creating a market for this kind of criminality .
"madam president , commissioner , mrs jiménez , the lack of organs for transplantation is a major problem ."
that is why I want to focus on the most important issues raised by these two proposals .
it is therefore important to reduce them further and these proposals seek to do exactly that .
we therefore need to screen the organs concerned before they are used .
organ donation rates vary considerably from one country to another .
it is therefore a question of harmonisation .
it is also a question of improving cooperation among all the member states .
it was clearly just an error of some kind .
this standard is a logical and very welcome step .
"some countries , on the other hand , require explicit consent ."
"however , I am even more pleased that this is a topic which is genuinely european ."
i value that highly .
"as far as the list of speakers is concerned , the cause is being looked into ."
"parliament emphasises , however , that living donations must be considered complementary to donations after death ."
"mr ouzký , many thanks once again for bringing this to our attention ."
we have looked into it .
it was a problem in the allocation caused by the computer system .
you will thus be listed in the minutes as the speaker for your group .
i hope that this resolves the issue .
thank you for pointing it out .
this would not only fly in the face of our aims .
the president cut off the speaker 
"on the other hand , it is a subject of heightened interest for two basic reasons ."
statistics show that the situation differs greatly among the various member states .
all these areas need to be treated with respect as there is no right or wrong approach .
the area of living donations has been the most challenging .
the president cut off the speaker 
i have seen how pleased he was that he was able to benefit from this .
"however , I also saw how he waited and how his quality of life was restricted ."
it is therefore important that we adopt this proposal now .
there is a high social relevance to this .
let us make use of those conditions .
i really do not believe that we need to harmonise the differing systems .
the president cut off the speaker 
european benchmarking shows differences .
there are some principles and practices to be safeguarded .
"third , the proactive promotion of donation in hospitals as a way of overcoming shortages ."
congratulations to the rapporteurs on their work .
we are all well aware of the figures thousands of people across europe require organ transplants every year .
"for me , the key issue is raising awareness and I believe these reports will help achieve this ."
many lives have been saved .
many more can be .
i commend this report .
this is a weakness and I hope and believe that it is not serious .
"for supplying information about a single donor , doctors in poland could earn more than one month's salary ."
trust is absolutely essential .
that is why a european framework on the issue is required .
"of course , we must be extremely vigilant as regards the issue of illegal organ trafficking ."
all measures must be implemented to combat mafia style networks and transplantation tourism .
we must guarantee the principle of free transplants and prevent any pressure from being put on potential donors .
"some of the problems mentioned in the report , such as organ trafficking , cannot be directly addressed ."
ro transplants and organ donation save and prolong the lives of thousands of european citizens every year .
this is a difficult and controversial issue which raises important questions .
the basque country euskadi has the world record for organ donation .
"in 2009 , we had a rate of 38.5 donations for every million inhabitants ."
"nl approximately two years ago , the european parliament adopted the adamou report by an overwhelming majority ."
it was my very great pleasure to cooperate on this as one of the shadow rapporteurs .
"madam president , I would like to have some guidance from the rapporteur on two issues ."
"as I understand it , these two systems still coexist in member states ."
"in one system , it is presumed that the deceased donor would have consented to the transplantation ."
should it not be recommended to every member state to use the presumption of consent system ?
the other thing is anonymity versus traceability .
there seems to be a kind of controversy between the two .
what are the issues here ?
what is anonymity and traceability ?
"no more than roughly half of us are prepared to donate organs , however ."
we therefore need to influence public opinion in this area .
can coordination be improved ?
absolutely .
that is how it was .
it is a known fact that the lungs live on for two hours after death has occurred .
let us push for factual knowledge to be exploited in practice .
pl thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak .
"i would like to come back to what is , in my opinion , a fundamental matter ."
"in different member states of the european union , very different methods are used for identifying potential donors ."
"these measures do , of course , have a fundamental influence on the number of donors ."
nearly 10 people a day die whilst waiting .
"lades and gentlemen , as you are aware , nearly 56 000 patients are currently on the waiting lists ."
donation rates and the availability of organs vary considerably between european countries .
the lack of organs is a key factor affecting transplant programmes .
the good practice that can be achieved produces much greater benefits in some member states than in others .
"de madam president , I have followed this debate very closely ."
words draw pictures in people's minds .
i believe that this directive quite clearly states that the trade in organs is itself an illegal activity .
we must not send out the signal that trade in organs could be legal in some circumstances .
"thus , there cannot be any illegal trade in organs because no trade in organs is allowed ."
there is only organ donation .
"however , as you are aware , the work does not end with the adoption of this directive ."
"thank you once again to all the parliamentary groups for their support , their tone and their constructive attitude ."
"together , we are going to achieve this ."
we have already achieved it .
i would like to again congratulate and thank dr mikolášik and mr perello rodriguez for their contribution .
the directive will provide a comparable safety standard across the union and increased trust in transplantation systems .
"thank you for your input , your cooperation and your support ."
c6 0480 / 2008 
rapporteur mr miroslav mikolášik ppe 
amendments 
"directly acceptable amendment 106 text as a whole , block no 1 , compromise amendment ."
the commission is in favour of the adoption of the compromise text by the colegislators
that was not our task .
that was our task and that is what we have done .
the joint debate is closed .
"the vote will take place on wednesday , 19 may 20 the sitting was suspended at 16.25 and resumed at 16.30 "
written statements rule 149 
the new law will save many lives and optimise the organs donated by allowing member states to share organs .
"now , the organ can be given to one of the 56 000 eu citizens awaiting transplants ."
this regulation constitutes an important framework which needs to be developed upon by the respective member states .
"with reference to ireland , we need an independent body to monitor the transplantation and harvesting of donated organs ."
the next item is the joint debate on 
"madam president , commissioner , mr lópez garrido , I think this is an important day ."
i would like to summarise the content of this report based on three main ideas .
what does this mean ?
this report sets out institutional and legal aspects that I am not going to describe now .
i would also like to thank mrs gál and mr preda for their cooperation in the two other committees .
"ladies and gentlemen , I think that this is headline news ."
"this increases our credibility , as mr jáuregui's report very rightly states ."
this is a commitment that has been made by the european union and by its member states .
this is also why this review conference is very important .
the accession of the eu to the european convention on human rights is a step of constitutional importance .
"let me just mention three points which , in my view , are very important ."
i am glad to see that parliament's report also argues in favour of this .
the ratification by bangladesh brought the number of state parties to the rome statute to 1the common position was translated into an action plan .
the inclusion of icc clauses in international agreements is now standard practice for the european union .
i am going to refer to mr jáuregui atondo's report .
one of the issues is certainly the position of our transatlantic partners on the icc .
this is a regrettable loophole that should be removed from the rome statute .
commissioner reding has pointed this out .
the conference in kampala needs to work on the definition of the termwar of aggression.
"at present , member states are not required to make the convention directly applicable within their domestic law ."
"i want to be reassured that if the eu signs the convention , that position will not change ."
"in my view , that is a very good reason not to permit the eu to sign the convention ."
they can bring cases of this nature before the european court of human rights under article such cases can be brought before the european court of human rights in strasbourg under article it is thus easy to see the benefits .
"these must remain national matters and therefore , the eu should not go down this route ."
we are reminded of george orwell .
"thanks to the convention on human rights , these travellers have special protected rights ."
"they have priority in health care and education , all at the expense of local taxpayers !"
the rapporteur wants us to involve our national courts and ministries of justice in this process .
i say that the convention on human rights has done enough damage already .
perhaps the rapporteur would like to visit my constituency and witness at first hand the desecration of our land .
perhaps he would like to speak to the hardworking villagers who have seen the value of their homes plummet .
the convention on human rights has degraded the rights of my constituents .
it should not be up to unelected officials to decide who is special and who is not .
we have a newly elected government in the uk which has made promises in this area .
"in the name of democracy , let them carry out those promises !"
that was 23 years ago .
"he replied ,in england , because there everything happens 100 years later."
it is his first report and I am sure that it will not be his last .
"it is a last resort , as commissioner reding said , but an important one ."
"with the lisbon treaty , we are working towards an effective common foreign eu policy ."
support for this court needs to be globalised as well .
the european parliament has been working constructively and is united on this subject .
"the court's chief prosecutor , luis moreno ocampo , has skilfully helped the court to strengthen its impartiality globally ."
britain joined the icc under the previous labour administration .
"as for the icc , I would like to express two wishes ."
that implies ad hoc legal assistance affording access to specialist external lawyers .
"france , in particular , has not yet done this ."
which document or which section would take precedence ?
this is not entirely theoretical as the case of the danish cartoons illustrates .
the silence was as deafening as it was clear for all to hear and to understand .
free speech will always be sacrificed because that is the eu's default position .
denying free speech is what the eu does best !
should there be no restrictions on freedom of speech ?
"quite simply , they are wrong ."
"prior to its creation , many of us wanted the court to have a preventative role ."
"personally , I continue to believe that it is part of the solution ."
it will be very difficult to explain to our citizens which court is the right one for their complaint .
the lives of hundreds of people are at stake .
"i ask the leaders of the european parliament to offer assistance to the victims , should this become necessary ."
"at the moment , there are several dozen towns in northern hungary that are entirely under water ."
we hope that fate and god will have mercy on these disaster stricken regions .
"accession to the convention , however , does not increase protection for human rights ."
so this symbolic gesture is extremely important .
"given the importance of the european union , I suggest that we should draw the line at that is not the subject of this decision and this very welcome report , however ."
i thank the rapporteur .
war criminals must be absolutely certain that they will have to account for their actions .
"in view of this , it is good that the review conference will take place in africa ."
africa is a continent where many crimes have not yet been punished .
the role of the court in this matter is crucial .
"if the court had existed 70 years ago , perhaps the katyń massacre would never have happened ."
"the existence of an effective court can , of itself , have a preventative effect ."
the european union cannot continue to give contradictory signals .
it is imperative that president omar al bashir be handed over to the icc .
"madam president , I will speak on the union's accession to the european convention on human rights ."
i want to underline that I am going to speak as a lawyer .
the court in luxembourg must first be given the possibility to apply the convention in such cases .
let us not forget that the court in luxembourg has been applying the convention for years .
pl I would like to say something about the subject of today's proceedings .
the european union must not be passive in this situation .
"fortunately , the international criminal court in kampala is becoming increasingly significant in measures being taken against these crimes ."
criminals must know they will never go unpunished anywhere .
"i do not suppose we can raise any doubts about this , today ."
"in addition to the symbolism , this legal measure also has practical significance for eu human rights policy ."
"on a formal level , it will also eliminate double standards ."
"the union , that is to say , was not previously obliged to observe human rights ."
the european court of human rights is already overstretched enough .
"moreover , needless complications might undermine the legitimacy and popularity of the process of eu accession to the convention ."
"we ask questions but never receive any answers to them , save perhaps for some general statements ."
i thank you in advance for finally making an exception to the general rule for once .
"this is therefore an opportunity not to be wasted , and one for which we have waited many years ."
"es madam president , I would like to clarify two things ."
"secondly , the jurisdiction of the european court of human rights is supranational ."
the european union could therefore theoretically infringe the european convention on human rights .
this means that it is not enough for the member states to have signed the convention .
this is absolutely contradictory .
"there may be other reasons , but not the ones being given ."
i also presume that many members will be at the debates at the kampala conference .
they are the basis of the values on which we have been building our society and our european union .
i think they are much too important and much too historical to give way to party political polemics .
that should be clearly stated once and for all .
it is better for citizens to have twice the rights than to have zero rights .
"here , we are giving them twice the rights , and that is what europe is about ."
so I do not think we should discuss this any further because that is simply done .
the individual relationship between a member state and the convention will stay exactly the same as it is .
now there will be supplementary guarantees concerning the eu law .
of course the issue of the risk of conflicting jurisprudence has to be analysed .
it is being analysed and I am grateful to the rapporteur who has taken this issue on board .
the commission expects case law of strasbourg and of luxembourg to develop harmoniously and converge in the coming years .
i now move to more specific questions .
"the european parliament has so far , under the leadership of its rapporteurs , done very good work ."
we have to make it count .
we will do that systematically in all our discussions with partners outside of europe .
there were two very specific questions which I would like to answer briefly .
i would like to answer a few questions and clarify a few things very quickly .
"accession is not a symbolic act , ladies and gentlemen it has legal value ."
"some are asking what the point is , and what it adds ."
i will give you an example .
where do the hungarian lawyers take their complaint ?
to the court of justice of the european union .
what does accession add ?
it is therefore clear that this event does not make a symbolic contribution but a legal contribution .
"i would like to clarify two things , ladies and gentlemen ."
i have received one motion for a resolution at the end of the debate .
the joint debate is closed .
"the vote will take place on wednesday , 19 may 20written statements rule 149 "
"this is a substantial development , given that member states have transferred important powers to the european union ."
this is an area which will be particularly affected by the union's accession to the convention .
why ?
let us hope that this is how it will be .
we must make sure its principles are upheld in all member states .
"regardless of this fact , latvia was accepted into the european union in 200as a result , there are approximately 340 000 non citizens living in eu territory ."
"there is a city in latvia , daugavpils , where more than 90 % of the population is russian speaking ."
"local councillors , elected in a russian speaking city , are not allowed to use their mother tongue in meetings ."
this will certainly lead to problems in the area of jurisdiction and the autonomy of the court of justice .
"both these systems coexist and there is no competition between them , so perhaps those fears are unjustified ."
so we should be glad that the system will be strengthened .
stockholm action plan debate 
the next item is the council and commission statements on the stockholm action plan .
"this is undoubtedly one of the great achievements of the area of freedom , security and justice ."
it is therefore an extremely important programme .
"we are therefore talking about an extremely important programme , which must be implemented and set out in detail ."
it is a new era .
this is initially taking shape in the important stockholm programme .
this action plan is a guide for very concrete measures to be taken during the next five years .
the set of initiatives laid down are a roadmap a roadmap to a free and secure europe .
"i nevertheless wish that this proposal could have been presented earlier than scheduled , madam commissioner ."
i hope that the measures will be presented in a user friendly way .
i would like to make a few general and a few specific remarks regarding the plan .
of course we consider the stockholm programme to be very important .
"likewise , the provision of information on human rights is not sufficiently categorical ."
we know that implementation is related to the degree to which people are aware of their rights .
there are two other important issues .
our citizens demand and deserve better protection against terrorism and against organised or trans border crime .
"it is now close to the end of the spanish presidency , with five weeks to go ."
we really are waiting for it .
the anti discrimination directive is something this plenary voted for and the greens are really waiting for that .
you said people would be put at the centre .
organising same sex partnerships is putting people at the centre .
could you give me an explanation as to why ?
"the lisbon treaty gives parliament a new role , and I would like the commission to act upon it ."
parliament's homepage tells us that more than 20 % of young people in europe are unemployed .
"es madam president , we are talking about more than 360 actions in five years ."
"along with what I have mentioned , there is a great deal more that has been said ."
these are very important issues that would have been worthy of a different parliamentary format .
i would like to stress that this is my view .
i would like to mention at least two more areas .
"we are finally , a decade overdue , but finally building the mutual trust necessary for mutual recognition ."
we must define some priorities .
"on the question of substance , mrs reding spoke of added value ."
el the big word missing from immigration programmes is the wordsolidarity.
whatever happened to solidarity ?
over 100 000 illegal immigrants arrive in greece from turkey every year .
whatever happened to the europe turkey agreement on the return of these illegal immigrants ?
it is being side stepped and is barely even mentioned in our programme .
whatever happened to the agreement being negotiated by frontex with turkey today ?
"finally , of course , there is the huge obligation of solidarity towards immigrants themselves calledintegration."
we may be building time bombs .
"programmes are needed , money is needed and , at the moment , the commission does not have them ."
that is an understatement if ever there was one !
the european arrest warrant is a gross miscarriage of justice in itself .
extradition has been reduced to a mere bureaucratic formality .
they both refer to an evaluation of the anti corruption efforts in the member states .
"i would like to suggest having it done before the end of 20therefore , it would be a measure to stop and prevent it ."
"what we are talking about here is the composition of that european citizenship , which we need to deepen ."
"with regard to freedoms , we were talking earlier about accession to the european convention on human rights ."
this is one of the spanish presidency's priorities .
i refer to the extensive debate that we had earlier .
"as you know , work is under way on this directive ."
this is a very ambitious and very important directive .
gender violence is undoubtedly the biggest scourge that exists with the greatest number of victims in european societies .
"regarding security issues , the internal security strategy was adopted in the march european council ."
"so , there are various important initiatives under way in relation to immigration ."
i think this is a debate that we need to have .
it would also be very interesting at a later stage in order to be able to prosecute transnational crimes .
it is also a debate that has been launched by the spanish presidency of the european union .
"vice president of the commission . madam president , everybody is talking about the stockholm programme ."
that is a christmas tree with several hundred wishes .
i would like everybody to speak about the reality .
how were these christmas tree wishes treated before the lisbon treaty ?
that is where we are starting from an impossible situation .
"fortunately , we now have the lisbon treaty ."
there is no third pillar any more .
"first , a thorough analysis of what is feasible , what is good , what has added value ."
"and then , impact assessments , in order to see if what we are doing is the right way ."
"and , only then , we have the definite proposal from the commission ."
and do you know what will happen with those proposals ?
so here we really have to work together .
the arrest warrant ms ludford was just speaking about this .
"colleagues , you cannot do all this without having mutual trust ."
we will have to do something we will have to explain to the citizens what we are doing .
there is an awful lot in the pipeline .
it is not about who is going to do what because certain things you simply cannot do .
here is an example you asked for the anti discrimination directive .
so speak to the council speak with those who are blocking it .
where the european union comes in is the cross border treatment of these same sex couples .
that is why I am very happy I have read the report by mario monti .
"there are many elements in this report , which say where we have to move ."
you know what is my bible ?
i need your very constructive help .
it is going to be on your table .
"in five yearstime , with your help , we will have changed this continent ."
the debate is closed .
question time commission 
the next item is question time b7 0211 / 2010 .
the following questions are addressed to the commission .
part one
subject communication providing for a higher target for greenhouse gas emission cuts
a number of remarks need to be made on this proposal .
"as a result , the cost of making cuts will rise again ."
what is the commission's reaction to the above remarks ?
this communication was actually requested by the environment council in its conclusions dated 15 march this year .
but let me just say one thing very clearly .
i really hope that parliament will also take part in this debate .
it would not be appropriate for me to do so .
ro we voted today on the report on the amendment to the energy performance of buildings directive .
"as my fellow member has also said , we still need funds ."
"commissioner , does not the original question demonstrate the scale of the problem you face when addressing this issue ?"
do you not need to address the problem of climate change denial if you are to raise our ambitions ?
there are many ways to cope with improved efforts there .
"carbon leakage is not a case where if we do things , we risk losing jobs ."
i think that is very crucial to all of us .
subject action by the commission on copyright
i would firstly like to thank mrs geringer de oedenberg for her question .
it goes right to the heart of the current debates on copyright and the internet .
"unfortunately , too often , copyright is presented as an obstacle to the creation of a single digital market ."
i think that is unfair .
copyright allows the creator to sell what he has created and guarantees him a return on his investment .
"furthermore , this is the role that I envisage , with you , for the european legislator ."
"moreover , this year , I will take three initiatives along these lines ."
"firstly , a proposal for a framework directive on collective copyright management ."
i am thinking about a european definition of orphan works .
"thirdly , I will present a green paper on audiovisual content and the internet ."
"here , it is a question of analysing the conditions for the emergence in europe of new video on demand services ."
i want a europe that allows for the emergence of new economic models .
"i have no preconceived idea of the type of intervention that will be needed , legislative or otherwise ."
neither am I dogmatic or deluded about the chances of finding one size fits all solutions .
i welcome the initiatives being taken by the commission .
"i can confirm that , on this point , this is not the approach that we have chosen ."
our preferred approach is to create a regulatory framework favouring pan european copyright licences .
"in particular , I am thinking about the question of the partially sighted ."
you wonder why we are not more ambitious as regards the creation of a single european copyright .
"therefore , the new copyright would not apply to all pre existing musical compositions ."
i also said why I wanted to work on a directive concerning orphan works .
i am asking this as we need legal certainty .
"however , we do not intend to amend the catalogue of exceptions ."
subject the eu's state aid map
the current state aid map was agreed based on statistics from 200the european economy is now radically different .
member of the commission . I have been asked by mr almunia to answer this question .
three out of seventeen member states concerned by the mid term review have decided to use this possibility .
author . thank you very much for your reply .
i find it amazing that only three states have actually applied .
it is unbelievable .
that to me is very regressive and needs to change .
"however , that is the case according to the figures we had this morning ."
seventeen member states were given the possibility but only three have done so .
part two
subject eu ukraine police cooperation
"however , the strategic agreement does not allow the exchange of personal information on suspects ."
or does this only take place at the member state level ?
this will also be dealt with in a meeting with the ukrainian authorities in only a few weeks time .
we are open to cooperation with them .
they are an important neighbour .
we have lots in common .
subject spiralling crime rates in europe
the commission nevertheless acknowledges that organised crime is a threat to citizens and the economy throughout the european union .
"of course , organised crime will be included in this ."
the commission is determined to reinforce cooperation in this and is also preparing operational and legislative proposals on this .
the cooperation with candidate and third countries is important to tackle crimes effectively .
the effective and efficient implementation of the adopted measures depends on the national resources allocated to achieve objectives .
the commission can support member states by financial programmes to cooperate at a european level .
i thank the commissioner for her reply .
"i raised the possibility that these were being used for money laundering purposes , for criminal purposes ."
i understand now from the united kingdom that there are real concerns about this .
i have to say there has to be a reasonable suspicion of tax evasion or perhaps other criminal activity .
member of the commission . I just want to thank the honourable member for this information .
i will certainly look into it and see whether we can track some patterns in this .
"thank you , commissioner , for your reply ."
this question was put to you by me on 6 april 2010 and on 5 may 20i shall repeat the question in order to obtain a more specific reply .
it is always a tragedy when innocent people are affected by these issues .
"we deplore it , and our thoughts are with their families ."
"hopefully , we will be able to have a better assessment some time soon ."
we do not plan any initiatives for the moment on this .
"for the moment , there is no initiative planned in this regard ."
subject a common eu visa policy
these rules apply to nationals of all third countries subject to visa requirement .
it will be discussed again by the member states in the council at the beginning of june .
subject unresolved issues in the turkey eu joint statement of 5 november 2009
bearing in mind 
the constant harassment of frontex aircraft by turkish aircraft 
is there any linkage with the discussions with frontex ?
is the harassment of frontex aircraft linked to turkey's refusal explicitly to recognise the eu's aegean borders ?
member of the commission . I have a busy agenda today !
there was a joint statement at that time moving forward .
"since then , there has been progress ."
the aim is to finalise this and to report on the outcome of the negotiations during the june council .
there is a parallel negotiation going on with turkey .
"we are , as I said , very close to wrapping these negotiations up ."
"this is , of course , to the benefit of everybody ."
i understand that .
is frontex not a very important factor in combating illegal immigration ?
i agree that there is a lot of room for cooperation here .
subject eu counter terrorism policies and cia rendition
a number of recent developments have shed more light on member state involvement in the us rendition programme .
member of the commission . thank you to sarah ludford for this question .
practices referred to as renditions and secret detentions are a violation of human rights .
the commission has also written to the lithuanian authorities welcoming their proactive attitude in initiating investigations .
"in 2008 , the commission provided panoramic factual information in its public staff document on terrorism and fundamental rights ."
we still do not have a full calling to account .
"this has created momentum , but also strong public opinion to find out the truth ."
the single european sky proposal is there to help us to further monitor this .
we will keep an eye on this and will continue to push for clarity .
have there been any positive changes I this respect ?
"the main actions are being taken by national services , police authorities and national politicians ."
"we have some funding , we can provide support for victims and we can encourage further cooperation ."
my feeling is that there is a lot of cooperation going on between the member states on this .
of course there is still the very sensitive issue of sharing intelligence .
this is based on trust or lack of trust sometimes .
this is an area where the european union can help .
"as they deal with the same subject , the following questions will be taken together "
subject entrepreneurs and smes
subject smes
subject smes and job creation
what targets has the commission set and how will it propose to monitor these targets ?
subject european sme week
next week is the european sme week .
the greatest challenge being faced by small and medium sized enterprises at the present is securing capital and funding .
what can be done at european level to solve this problem ?
subject measures to reduce administrative costs for smes
"will question 33 , in part 3 , be taken ?"
we are all trying to attend several meetings .
"if you could clarify exactly the ones that will not be taken , it would be helpful ."
"i think it extremely unlikely that we will get to question if you are waiting for that , I would not do so ."
"mr president , I have now been speaking in my new capacity for two years ."
"since the adoption of the small business act in 2008 , substantial progress has been made ."
"to give an example the directive on late payment , and the exemption of micro entities from accounting burdens ."
the next stage will involve ensuring that member states incorporate these measures in their national reform programmes .
quarterly meetings will be chaired by the european commission .
author . I want to congratulate the commissioner on progress achieved .
it has distributed funds to irish banks to distribute on to smes .
"furthermore , would you favour some kind of enterprise guarantee scheme , similar to what is in the uk ?"
"as well as that , there is too much bureaucracy orred tapein place ."
we got into the mess we are in because people were on automatic .
"to some extent , they are still on automatic ."
how do you win an election ?
one vote at a time .
"if we can get one job in every sme in europe , we will end the unemployment crisis ."
it will return a dividend .
"the obvious question is , does the commission actually believe that sme week can deliver on its aims ?"
i urged the president to speed up the delivery times .
the aim is for our small and medium sized enterprises to be competitive .
"hence , my primary commitment to involving the banks even the banks supplying credit ."
many of them have committed themselves to doing this in the future .
i apologise to colleagues for the rather shortened question time because the previous debate overran by 25 minutes .
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers see annex .
that concludes question time .
the sitting was suspended at 20.30 and resumed at 21.00 
principle of subsidiarity and universality of social public services in the eu debate 
the sitting is resumed .
"responsibility rests with the public authorities , but the contractors are both public and non public ."
should the same principles function in relation to public aid in social housing ?
is this type of action definitely in accordance with the subsidiarity principle which operates in the european union ?
i will now quote from the statement .
that is the quotation .
my question is as follows .
"does that actually fall within the commission's competence , and how does it relate to subsidiarity and proportionality ?"
the second the question on the principles of subsidiarity and universality .
the third a question of income limits for access to social housing .
social housing is a key tool for active social and economic inclusion policies in the european union .
"in reply to questions 1 and 2 , I would like to be very clear ."
the commission imposes no single definition of social housing at eu level and fully respects the principle of subsidiarity .
"furthermore , this point was emphasised more recently in the protocol on services of general interest ."
the commission's role is limited to checking that there is no manifest error in the definition .
this approach was confirmed in a commission decision adopted in december 2009 on social housing in the netherlands .
question 2 also refers to a universal right to housing .
"however , as I have already said , housing in general is not the same as social housing ."
there is no income limit set at eu level for access to social housing .
this amount concerns one member state the netherlands .
the dutch authorities set such a limit to identify the target group for social housing in the netherlands .
the issue concerned is who is to be allocated housing ?
the threshold that has now been set is eur 33 000 .
"i feel that insufficient room is left for flexibility , for tailor made solutions ."
member states must be able to adapt to circumstances .
this 10 % is very small .
we are talking about flexibility there is not enough elbow room .
"following today's debate , we must look at whether to come back again with a resolution ."
"services of general economic interest , of course , really do need to be protected ."
"madam president , commissioner , we are talking here about legal basis , which is obviously very important ."
"moreover , social housing is much more than housing reserved for people on low incomes or in need ."
"in addition , during this legislature , we are going to work on services of general interest ."
how can we calculate their incomes ?
"madam president , commissioner , you just said that the commission attached great importance to social housing ."
"indeed , we are talking about a fundamental right that is not being applied in our member states ."
"moreover , this is another stain on our current model of european integration ."
i definitely believe that europe must start from scratch .
"commissioner , I believe that we will agree on this point ."
state aid is being called into question here .
i regret that the commissioner did not indicate any such proposals rather than seek to justify the existing system .
"they are also , as it happens , needed to create a solid basis for a modern economy ."
"therefore , I have two questions for you ."
the first is simple what is the legal status of this definition ?
is it to be applied to all member states ?
the second question is much more general .
"for this question is important , after all ."
the universality and the accessibility of public services are at stake .
it will also undermine ventures that the european union has promoted with its community initiatives urban and urban ii .
"however , social housing has been set in the spotlight of this debate on the example of the netherlands ."
"in the european union , we are facing growing income disparities ."
the result of that is ghettoisation .
we therefore have the crisis we have at the moment .
ro social housing does indeed come under services of general interest .
"unfortunately , the rate of youth unemployment has reached 20 % in the european union at the moment ."
is the commission not intruding in the competences of the member states ?
"currently , member states apply different standards when deciding their criteria for social housing ."
it is understandable that the economic and social situations differ significantly in the member states .
ro I wish to thank the commissioner for the clarifications he has provided on this issue .
i do not believe either that there should be a single definition of social housing .
the issue of subsidiarity is relevant in this debate .
"i will digress slightly , if I may , beyond the specific scope of the question ."
this is a regulation which this parliament adopted in february and which was also mentioned by mrs ţicău .
your decision runs counter to this policy of social rebalancing and of necessary social diversity .
"pt madam president , we all know that the right to housing is a fundamental right ."
the member states of the european union are therefore obliged to guarantee social housing for anyone who needs it .
"at other times , however , it arrives unobtrusively ."
the need then became apparent for exemptions from this obligation in the case of social housing .
"suddenly , we have a european definition on our hands ."
"responsibility for social housing is fully within the competence of national , regional and local authorities ."
let us not question the ability of national societies and local communities to solve their own problems .
they are the ones who know these problems best .
they also know the options for solving them .
those people are mainly taken care of by local authorities .
it rests with the local authorities and regional institutions to help such people as quickly as possible .
"in this set of questions which I received , these two issues competition and social policies overlap ."
that is why it is even more complex than it would be outside the context of the crisis .
i would also need to add that the commission only verifies aid given to housing companies .
any subsidy given directly to citizens is not subject to state aid rules .
"the discussion also touched upon a wider context , which is social services of general interest ."
the commission is committed to promoting the quality of social services .
a few final thoughts in closing my answer .
the debate is closed .
security and prevention measures on offshore oil platforms in the eu debate 
the next item is the commission statement on security and prevention measures on offshore oil platforms in the eu .
the accident throws into sharp relief the risks associated with oil and gas supply works out at sea .
we have the competent bodies and mechanisms in order to be able to react quickly to a potential accident .
"together with commissioner potočnik , I have therefore asked our offices to review applicable eu legislation ."
"of course , no set of regulations can offer a 100 % guarantee ."
a lot depends on the approach and the behaviour of the operative field in our industry .
commissioner georgieva was also there .
we presented a catalogue of questions that were answered by the companies over the following days .
"the oil slick now covers over 43 000 square kilometres , which is bigger than the netherlands ."
this should be the first step at supranational level towards ensuring the safety of europe's seas .
decisions made under pressure from an industrial or political lobby should not be allowed .
"commissioner , often it is not enough to simply increase prevention measures ."
"inevitably , man is also affected ."
"however , measures are being taken in the united states ."
"the obama government confirmed the moratorium after the accident , despite its initial statements to the contrary ."
"at the same time , however , oil platforms are still being commissioned , mainly in the north sea ."
"there are , at present , hundreds of offshore platforms , drilling for both oil and natural gas ."
the obama government was forced to retreat by the scale of the disaster .
the latter raises three major issues .
"you spoke of minimum standards , commissioner , but that is not enough ."
"secondly , what control measures are in place to ensure that safety requirements are fully met ?"
having safety rules on paper is not enough they have to be applied and their application actually monitored .
what do you intend to do to move in this direction ?
"thirdly , in the event of an accident , what resources are in place to avoid coastal pollution ?"
"it is all very well having vessels and civilian forces , but what do we have at our disposal ?"
is it not time that we demanded that operators have specific technical equipment that could be pooled ?
we want and we need to move away from this oil based society .
is it not time that we did so ?
"madam president , commissioner , I too feel that we need to stop those in industry from playing god ."
"today , more than ever , the industrialised nations are thirsty for oil ."
"they are drilling everything they can , and at ever increasing depths , which clearly increases the risk of accidents ."
"like my fellow members , I too demand several things ."
"furthermore , I think we need to protect the most fragile ecosystems once and for all ."
"i am thinking about alaska , for example ."
"on behalf of the ecr group . madam president , I welcome the statement from the commissioner ."
"we have had , as colleagues have mentioned , our own experience of platform disasters in the north sea ."
"i think of piper alpha as one example , and I believe that lessons have been learned from that ."
let me urge that we are cautious and do not rush into new legislation .
let us be certain as to what happened .
"accidents and acts of god do happen , and we cannot guarantee to prevent them ."
there has to be a limit to what we can do in order to prevent them .
"apparently , there were some irregularities in the granting of drilling permits by the united states interior secretary ."
what does that mean ?
are you sure that your european maritime safety agency really is equipped to deal with something like this ?
you spoke about good coordination .
we have already often experienced failures in radio contact between the different countries .
"has that been checked , before an emergency incident occurs ?"
"when something actually does happen , what is the legal situation in relation to lawsuits against the oil companies ?"
would a risk fund perhaps be useful in this connection ?
can you rule out us having the same problems at european level ?
"the stipulation should not beyou can do everything , except .."
"ro I , too , welcome the commission's initiative ."
there are currently a huge number of platforms in member statesterritorial waters extracting oil .
we must ensure that companies cannot shirk from assuming responsibility .
we cannot put up with a similar situation here .
the source of the gas will be the russian stockman field in the barents sea .
damage to the pipeline will by no means mean its closure .
"de madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this debate is a timely one ."
"this has a cost , of course , but the cost of doing nothing would obviously be much higher ."
"in the past , we took the global lead by imposing double hulls for oil tankers ."
"i think that here , too , we should take the lead and set a good example ."
there is a lot of destruction of life that should be conserved .
"in other words , does there always have to be an accident before we learn anything ?"
we should also concentrate all our mental energies and our financial resources on investing in renewable energy .
"the sooner we do this , the better it will be for everyone ."
we should not allow this to happen .
this type of accident also comes under this category .
"however , nature has its own demands ."
the exact cause of the accident in the gulf of mexico is still unknown .
was it the technology that failed ?
was it human error ?
"as a second point , we must move away from oil ."
our citizens have far in excess of 200 million cars and you and I all drive them .
"i drive a lot , and I also fly a lot for business purposes ."
there are more neon lamps than meps here tonight .
depths of 150 and 200 metres can be reached with manned submarines .
i also have confidence in our member states .
"in the case of nord stream , too , we naturally had to examine the issue of safety ."
nord stream is not comparable with what is happening in the gulf of mexico .
all of us in politics and in society must take that path .
we have put the relevant questions .
i believe that the energy companies are well aware of the seriousness of the situation .
i have one final point to make . there are already bases for liability for punitive damages .
"incidentally , none of the parties involved in the united states disputes that ."
"this , too , will reinforce a precautionary approach when it comes to safety ."
that is how we work in the commission .
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
these are still too general in nature .
we only need to think about the directive on environmental impact assessments or the framework for occupational safety .
considerations to do with prevention therefore take a back seat .
industrial regulations and voluntary undertakings by companies do not offer a reassuring solution .
it is absolutely clear that legally defined safety guarantees are needed .
volcanic ash crisis debate 
i will therefore be speaking on his behalf this evening .
how does the commission propose to address this gap in the legislation ?
the european union has been heavily affected by the consequences of the eyjafjallajökull volcano eruption in iceland .
the volcano eruption laid a cloud of volcanic ash over most of europe .
"volcanic ash contains many problematic substances that are harmful to aircraft and , in particular , their engines ."
the european union immediately mobilised resources to tackle the most pressing problems .
it received broad support from the council of transport ministers at its extraordinary meeting of 4 may 20i am happy to report the first steps taken as a consequence .
the european crisis coordination cell has been agreed with effect from 11 may 20the final arrangements for setting it up are being made this week .
"the nomination of a functional airspace blocks coordinator was endorsed by the single sky committee on 7 may 20there has been no coordination , flexibility or effort to make the maximum possible use of flight conditions ."
the package was adopted in spite of member statesresistance .
"in fact , the translation and publication took longer than the actual negotiations ."
the crisis has come and we have seen the benefit of implementing the ses ii package .
"unfortunately , there is no intention of this happening ."
the only solution therefore is for us to implement the ses ii package extremely quickly .
the commission has tabled urgent measures which have actually already been requested in the approved regulations .
they are excellent measures .
the guide's absence can be used by member states as a pretext for delay .
this approach also allows the sesar system to be implemented in ideal conditions at minimal cost .
in 2011. the last member states will join the schengen area .
i want to start by thanking you for your answer .
"a minute ago , you also talked about setting up a kind of coordination cell ."
more clarity will be provided on that subject this week .
what exactly should its initial tasks be ?
"also , stranded travellers , for example , do not really know what their rights are ."
passengersrights are a very important element .
"europe has done a very great deal of work in this field , which is to be welcomed ."
"as you know , though , there are gaps in the legislation ."
i also think that we need to monitor the application of this kind of legislation by the member states .
we heard just this week that the italian authorities have fined the airline ryanair .
"that is good news , but what is happening in the other member states ?"
can we obtain an assessment of this ?
the railways proved not to be a viable alternative .
"in my opinion , that is also very important , commissioner ."
"therefore , a very great deal remains to be done , but you have our support in this ."
we observed various things in this crisis .
"in germany , for example , bmw had some production bottlenecks due to not receiving deliveries ."
"we observed that we need every mode of transport , including aviation ."
"a five day break , the airlines said , could be coped with ."
passenger rights have been subject to varying comments from different speakers .
there are still two subjects in particular that I would like to go into .
the first is the single european sky .
"we have appointed a functional airspace blocks fab coordinator , of course ."
the question is also how long will it take until we actually achieve this ?
perhaps you are not in a position to answer that precisely .
"in this regard , too , we observed quite clearly where our difficulties lie ."
i will now move on to my final question .
do we have good crisis management arrangements for cases like this ?
"we have the institute in london , which is actually there to provide information when there are earthquakes ."
it also deals with volcanic eruptions as a secondary responsibility .
"now it has been producing computer projections based on second hand data , and it has been criticised for that ."
what other measurements do they take ?
"according to my information , they are better prepared for such situations ."
what else do you think that we can do ?
"how can we improve our technologies in the interests of aviation , the people and goods ?"
"madam president , the closing of european airspace was doubtless a necessary preventive measure in the interests of safety ."
i find myself wondering when there really will be plans in place .
"that is a key issue , as this subject continues to be constantly under discussion ."
"quite how , then , is this to be solved ?"
"who , exactly , is to be compensated ?"
the airlines ?
do they then pass the money on to the passengers ?
"for example , will business people who missed important appointments receive compensation ?"
"will a dealer , a company , that had to wait for replacement parts receive compensation ?"
why should it only be the airlines that receive compensation ?
i do not regard that as justified if you compare it with the economic consequences of this crisis .
"commissioner , this question is pending and I await an answer from you ."
"thank you , madam president ."
i should perhaps like to start by thanking commissioner kallas for his endurance during those five days .
"as a consequence , I believe we should draw some conclusions from this relatively critical situation ."
thank you .
perhaps we might then have avoided total paralysis of the airports and the shambles that followed .
"otherwise , we will be isolated from the eu's transport system ."
"other countries have railways and possibly motorail trains , but our three baltic states do not have this yet ."
i simply wish to remember those who were affected .
"firstly , there were the passengers ."
ten million people were left without flights and with no guidance as to what to do .
the impact on passengers was so great that the provisions of directives and regulations could not protect them .
i now come to the airlines .
the international air transport association iata estimates that they lost eur 1 700 million worldwide .
the association of european airlines aea assesses the loss at eur 850 million at european level .
this blow was all that they needed to accentuate a spiralling crisis that is threatening many airlines with closure .
the other victim has been tourism .
the consequences for tourism have been devastating .
"this is my diagnosis , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen ."
"now I come to the criticism , because criticism is necessary and inevitable self criticism , if necessary ."
i will now discuss the commission's response .
"today , the commission is reiterating the measures that it had announced to us ."
we are not talking about something in the past .
i know that we cannot fight the elements .
this was said by a famous spanish sailor regarding a big naval battle that we lost .
the crisis will not help us to take measures .
the member states will be reluctant to provide resources .
i ask everyone to be generous in implementing alternatives to make up for the incapacities of the institutions .
we therefore welcome this approach by the commission .
could the commission tell us what reluctance or reservations it observed in the council meeting on 4 may ?
we need to know .
the necessary penalty proceedings must naturally follow .
i live on an island which is behind an island which is off the coast of europe .
"as such , our peripheral airports and our airlines are particularly important for connectivity and mobility ."
there are a number of regional airports on the west coast of ireland .
"we have donegal , sligo , ireland west airport knock , shannon and kerry ."
let us not fool ourselves .
it is not going to go away any time soon .
"this will lead to job losses in the airline sector and consequently , less competition in the market ."
"the financial burdens are very significant on all actors passengers , airlines and airports ."
"the question is , who is responsible , and who bears the financial burdens ?"
our european airlines and airports have suffered catastrophic financial losses .
i believe that european airlines alone have lost more than eur 2 billion .
as a general rule I believe that the state should not artificially support business .
"risk , as we all know and accept , is part of running a business ."
"however , these are exceptional circumstances ."
"the question now is , what can and should be done in future to deal with such crises ?"
"firstly , airlines must be involved in discussions about possible airspace closures from the outset ."
"secondly , the sesar package must be brought forward in a sensible fashion ."
i still have some reservations about the creation of a network manager .
"i am not fundamentally opposed to the idea , but I strongly believe some questions remain to be answered ."
"for example , what would be the exact role ?"
to whom would this person be accountable ?
how would this improve the current situation ?
they seem to apply a more measured approach and I believe that we could perhaps learn something there .
an ordinary eu citizen who does not directly use aviation services has nothing to do with this business .
it is therefore totally inappropriate to transfer such aviation losses to eu member states .
they will not get a new house or better accommodation from any airline companies or eu governments .
"why should they , therefore , contribute towards making up for the lost profits of airline companies ?"
that would surely be absurd .
the only fairly specific information came from statements about the closure of more areas of air space .
"i think that the measures currently proposed by the commission are , unfortunately , not sufficient ."
"moreover , mr simpson's absence from this evening's debate says far more than his presence ."
i raise this because it is typical of the many journeys undertaken by irish people in recent weeks .
the eu transport ministers have established three separate flying zones based on the safety risk to aircraft .
"this is a welcome development and , of course , further measures are still needed ."
i strongly support the efforts to fast track the introduction of the single european sky concept .
"i have no doubt that the commissioner , who is with us this evening , will spearhead this ."
the role of eurocontrol must also be closely examined .
it must be given statutory powers as opposed to the coordinating role which it currently holds .
the role of the european union must be strengthened in the aftermath of this crisis .
"if there is one thing that tourism needs , it is certainty ."
"this is , of course , a significant loss ."
i must ask you to continue working to this end .
i must also ask you to continue working for passenger information and passenger rights .
i must ask you to continue working to this end .
"by doing so , it underlined once again the importance of a preventative approach to these phenomena ."
"thus , it is not just a european problem , but a problem for international aviation ."
everyone can remove the risk by simply not flying .
"an objectification of the entire issue must be at the heart of things , however ."
and certainly the evidence is there for all to see .
"es I am not the only one , madam president , but thank you ."
could the commissioner tell us whether it was used or whether this is being considered ?
i only had three minutes at the beginning .
it is clear that volcanoes continue to erupt as this icelandic volcano is doing .
"this is a part of this business , we must be very clear about that ."
"nobody alone can be responsible for this risk no airlines , no governments , no european union ."
"it has been intergovernmental bodies that have been dealing with this so far , as well as national authorities ."
"to exclude , prevent or foresee everything which can happen in aviation is impossible ."
this will be a very complicated thing .
the safety of planes and lives must come first .
"there is a responsibility , which mainly rests with the pilots ."
"in europe today , pilots tend to reject this kind of new responsibility ."
this is a very clear message .
"in general , the passenger rights legislation has worked very well and the logic must be there ."
this is a different word .
somebody mentioned that they should have insurance .
i asked them as well about the insurance .
they have contingency plans on how to deal with extraordinary circumstances which disrupt the schedules .
"regarding alternative transport , we will , of course , push ahead ."
one of our biggest priorities for the near future will be to have better information about all these possibilities .
this is another interesting story .
"i must stress that volcanoes do not obey any rules , and we cannot exclude possible extraordinary events ."
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
we do not have reports on the damage to air transport .
this year's far smaller eruption of eyjafjallajökull has literally wrought havoc with air transport in the european union .
we have no reports of other forms of transport being used to bring people home .
my other questions would merely repeat the questions of brian simpson .
"every day , 12 people die because of the shortage of organs available for transplantation ."
"in poland , the figure is in poland , I have distributed badges and bracelets which encourage support of transplantation medicine ."
promoting the idea of transplantation and coordinating the exchange of experience between member states can save thousands of lives .
this would also be a significant tool in the fight against organ trafficking and human trafficking .
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 09.05 
documents received see minutes
the next item is 
"the joint debate on mechanisms for strengthening economic order ,"
"mr president , everyone is aware that we are living in a period of exceptional financial turbulence ."
"this reaction , of course , had consequences for public economies and public finances ."
"we are now no longer talking about private finances , but about public finances ."
"firstly , there was a crisis of financial stability in public accounts as a result of very marked deficits ."
there was also a crisis in sovereign bonds .
that is the situation .
it may have appeared slow to take decisions .
"then came 23 april , when an action mechanism was adopted regarding greece ."
"however , obviously a short term strategy is not enough ."
we need to take medium and long term measures .
i also hope that the council and parliament will reach an agreement in this respect .
"likewise , we have said that the european union has structural weaknesses and that structural reforms are needed ."
"in its communication on 12 may , it proposed the coordination of economic policies ."
this is something that mrs harms and mr cohn bendit emphasise in their question .
"on this subject , it should be said that all the european union institutions are working towards this ."
it was discussed at the european council in december of last year .
the international monetary fund was given the task of conducting a study on a tax on international financial transactions .
"in other words , the european union is raising these issues in all the forums that it attends ."
"we have remained in monetary union , but we are not moving on to economic union ."
i shall start with the immediate challenges and the crisis response .
"ten days ago , the european union took bold and necessary decisions to safeguard financial stability in europe ."
it was a response that I would call a consolidation pact .
"secondly , we agreed to accelerate fiscal consolidation in those member states where it is most urgently needed ."
"this is our responsibility in relation to our citizens , and we are delivering in very concrete terms ."
"we said we would be ready to meet the immediate needs of refinancing , and we delivered on time ."
"of course , it would be a mistake to stop our efforts here ."
but the crisis has shown that we need to acknowledge its systemic shortcomings .
i count on parliament's support for these important proposals .
they are at the heart of making europe 2020 a success in the coming years .
our proposals are based on two principles .
our proposals are made of three building blocks .
"first , we must reinforce both the preventive and corrective arms of the stability and growth pact ."
we have neither the intention nor the resources for that .
"some have criticised this , saying that this is a breach of parliamentary sovereignty ."
why is this important ?
we should prevent and tackle emerging problems before they escalate into a crisis .
"these indicators could include , for instance , productivity trends , unit labour costs and current account developments ."
"instead , it aims at rebalancing economic growth in europe as a whole ."
we need to reinforce export competitiveness where needed and domestic demand where needed and possible .
that is the way to play as a european team for the benefit of the whole of europe .
"yes , we need to avoid moral hazards ."
it is better to be safe than sorry .
"indeed , in the emu , it is high time to fill theewith life ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , europe has finally reacted ."
well let us do it now !
"ladies and gentlemen , we will not extricate ourselves unless all these measures are implemented ."
this applies to both right wing and left wing governments .
we must learn lessons from all this .
"this is how we are made , so there have to be penalties ."
this is the alpha and the omega of any serious policy in this area .
second lesson the 27 must concentrate on their budgetary policies very early on in proceedings .
the commission asked for this last week .
i myself asked for it in this chamber a few weeks ago .
"moreover , what is true of national budgets is also true of social and fiscal policy ."
this cannot continue either .
that is the third lesson which I have learnt from this crisis .
the euro will only be viable if we collectively give ourselves the resources to make it so .
we must look beyond national considerations and towards european considerations .
my group is asking europe to wake up .
financially reward the ones that clean up their public finances and punish the ones that refuse to do so !
"the commission , mr rehn , must not be afraid of doing this ."
it would be to the benefit of europeans and of member states .
"i understand these citizens , who have worked all their lives to have a few savings ."
so that is the first assurance we should give them that their savings are protected .
that is quite simply what the commission must do it was created for that purpose .
"it is only in this context , ladies and gentlemen , that the 2020 strategy will have any meaning ."
the system is wrong .
"it is , to a certain extent , immoral , and it is also warped ."
what is the trade in credit default swaps and credit default insurance all about ?
let me put this in practical terms .
i am sure that the lovely farm owned by mr daul is covered by a fire insurance policy .
this is a warped system .
it should be abolished and these practices should be banned .
these are exactly the mechanisms that we are discussing and the real life examples are not funny .
"the pension fund did not succeed , but it bought something else instead ."
"however , the pension fund then went bankrupt ."
now it is the governmentsturn .
"this is what you have said , mr lópez garrido and mr rehn ."
"now we are bringing in regulations for hedge funds , but when will the european rating agency be established ?"
what type of institutions are these which can decide on the fate of entire nations ?
they must be controlled and regulated .
"however , this should not be happening now ."
they were rejected by the same governments which today claim to be managing this crisis .
protests 
that is a good thing .
"it is just that when you are here , it is carnival every day that parliament is in session ."
i am really sorry .
"we have structural deficits in the eu , which the institutions are responsible for resolving ."
we have allegedly created an economic and monetary union .
"however , the reality is that we have a monetary union , but not an economic union ."
"in europe , we have a patchwork quilt of economic policies ."
this represents a huge risk .
"we must get rid of this deficit , which is why we need economic governance ."
anyone who is still opposed to this has not heard the warning shots .
we are in the middle of an extremely serious crisis of legitimacy .
people are realising that this economic system has failed and they no longer have any confidence in it .
"therefore , we need economic governance and we also ultimately need the strength to implement our own regulations ."
applause 
this is the situation we are in at the moment .
"for my part , I therefore have three messages to send out this morning in this debate ."
"the first message , mr lópez garrido , is addressed to the council ."
my second message is for the commission .
"for the time being , then , we have a working group ."
"in my opinion , this is much too late ."
that is what must be done .
"firstly , strengthening the stability and growth pact ."
"secondly , I believe that this package must also integrate a convincing 2020 strategy ."
are you going to reach a conclusion in june ?
"what , though , are you going to conclude in june with regard to the 2020 strategy ?"
"will it be the same thing that you concluded with regard to the lisbon strategy , which failed ?"
will it be the open method of coordination once again ?
"once again , it is an intergovernmental mechanism which was concocted within ecofin and which requires unanimity ."
every single loan which is granted has to be approved by all the member states .
"finally , we must have a european bond market ."
"this is what we are expecting from the commission , mr rehn ."
applause 
we are combining our support with a clear commitment to a more united economic and financial policy .
this is nothing new for my group .
it has been a tradition for us for many years .
"as we see it , we have been trying to cure the symptoms since 200we have been attempting to save the banks since 2008 , when lehman brothers went bankrupt ."
i would like to say once again that we must be honest with the citizens of europe .
the euro was not stabilised during the weekend before last .
"instead , once again , a large number of german and french banks were rescued ."
the share prices demonstrated very clearly what had happened .
it must no longer be kept in check by the banks and speculators which everyone is complaining about .
i would like to summarise the situation very briefly .
we must now make clear decisions on certain issues .
the participation of banks and speculators must no longer be merely a matter for soapbox speeches .
we can genuinely guarantee their involvement by introducing the tax .
i am very familiar with this term in a german context .
should the european strategy be used as a battering ram against the social responsibility of the state ?
"as greens , we have supported budgets of this kind in germany time and time again ."
i would like to make one final point .
"we must safeguard jobs by means of innovation , future viability and sustainability , but this does cost money ."
the introduction of new taxes is a taboo subject .
applause 
this approach misses the point .
sanctions were previously available they simply lacked credibility .
increasing their scope does not make them any more likely to be imposed .
would the new measures be taken any more seriously ?
"mr president , the most recent council meetings indicate that far reaching changes are under way ."
we are currently experiencing a process of governmentalisation of european policy .
the treaty of lisbon praised the role of parliament and the strengthening of that role .
we have also spoken out in praise of this .
fundamental agreements are now being reached between the governments and inconceivably large amounts of money are being spent .
these governments have saved casino capitalism using taxpayersmoney .
"however , they have taken a very hesitant approach to rescuing the states that are in debt ."
"somewhere , they managed to find eur 750 billion ."
the question is whether the money printing press will save economic development .
i believe that it is more likely to save the bankscapital .
"however , the european union must be more than just a free internal market with a single currency ."
"mr barroso is right when he says that without an economic union , we can forget the monetary union ."
"however , I cannot yet see any clear outlines ."
what we are lacking is a social union .
we are lacking the lasting and effective re regulation of the financial sector .
we are lacking a coordinated tax policy and wage policy and a tax on financial transactions .
"although we have been talking about this tax for a long time , it remains just talk ."
"it is time to safeguard the social state by means of the eu institutions , not to dismantle it ."
it is time to fight for the harmonisation of social standards at a high level .
hedge funds must be banned and tax havens abolished .
we are making very slow progress in combating the crisis in the financial markets .
"in the light of the speed with which the speculators are acting , we are doing far too little ."
the banks must not be allowed direct access to taxpayersmoney with the support of the state .
"i have three proposals and I should like , most emphatically , to ask for their support ."
the second proposal is this the amount in aid to greece could be used to repay our bonds .
"however , we cannot try and stimulate growth at the same time ."
let us hope that the greek crisis is the only price we have to pay .
please keep to your time next time .
could you explain why this is ?
"i would like to say , mrs sinclaire , that I am watching the time ."
"those speeches did , indeed , run over by some seconds ."
"mr president , the council was unanimous let us also show that kind of unanimity ."
we can achieve this only if we have a stable currency and a stable economy .
a stability and growth pact that is enforced is crucial for an ambitious eu 2020 strategy .
"for both of the above , success is dependent on sound european governance ."
this is at the heart of the resolution we discussed with the groups in this house last week .
"although irresponsible behaviour by speculators is not the cause , it has fanned the flames of the euro crisis ."
"de mr president , ladies and gentlemen , mrs wortmann kool is wrong in two respects ."
"firstly , we definitely do not want mr daul's farm to burn down ."
we do not want any farm to burn down .
"we want to take precautions , that is our objective ."
"secondly , we very much support the measures that mr rehn has proposed ."
mr lópez garrido said today that it had taken an infuriatingly long time for the decisions to be reached .
"however , that is simply not of interest to some people ."
"therefore , we are calling on the commission and the council to act ."
we must reduce the differences in competitiveness .
you spoke today about the reform of the labour market and the pension system .
"this is the right approach , but it is not enough just to reform the labour market and pensions ."
we must also look at the budget .
this is an exceptionally serious situation and we need exceptional answers .
"we need to find ways to encourage investment , attract capital and boldly cut bureaucratic expenses ."
we need to see intelligent measures taken by governments .
"fr mr president , ladies and gentlemen , yes , we need responsible public spending ."
"yes , we need to balance our budgets ."
"this requires responsible management of expenditure , and enough has been said about that for the moment ."
"yes , of course , this requires increased mutual supervision between equals ."
better to have tax sovereignty and failure than to really tackle the roots of the problem .
"finally , with regard to financial supervision , I should like to encourage ."
the president cut off the speaker 
the structural problem of ours has been that public overspending went on for too long .
the public sector was out of control for many years .
we had the stability pact .
what did mr prodi say about the stability pact in 2002 ?
you know you were the head of mr liikanen's cabinet .
he said the stability pact was stupid .
so we had to change it .
this was the guardian of the treaties .
"what we need is innovation , more free markets and more entrepreneurial skills , mr schulz ."
mr president in office from spain do we need taxation ?
"no , it makes things even worse ."
"it pushes the eu into stagnation , and you will be robin hood in reverse ."
"i understand the anger of the people the people with pensions , the people with savings ."
i understand the german taxpayers .
"they know that they will have to pay , but german taxpayers cannot always pay ."
this was said by a former government leader who messed up his own country .
so what is he trying to prove ?
you have brought the imf back into the european fold .
why were we not consulted about this decision ?
you talk unceasingly of deficits and debts .
"why , though , do we never talk about existing revenue options ?"
we need true solidarity .
the president cut off the speaker 
are we perhaps headed towards its destructuring within a year or two ?
i disagree with an economic and financial strategy that fails to contemplate specific needs .
"de mr president , I am opposed to the council's unacceptable anti european approach ."
you have not allowed regulations to be imposed when they were needed .
just one example of this is eurostat .
the commission called for eurostat to be given appropriate powers to conduct investigations .
who blocked this move ?
"what we really need is , of course , not an emergency government ."
"this applies to the member states , but also to the commission and to us ."
the deficit and sanction procedure needs to be automated .
"fourthly , I would like to call on the council to end the eurostat blockade ."
"we need information , but without advance authorisation ."
"fifthly , you have mentioned hedge funds and we have not yet come to a decision on this subject ."
the commission should quickly submit a proposal for the european transaction tax .
my eighth point is directed at the council .
we are committing ourselves to holding an impact assessment of all national legislation which is relevant to the eu .
the president cut off the speaker 
i will make a deal with you .
we in the european parliament are presenting concrete proposals .
we need to have the tools at our disposal in europe to enable us to make progress .
please help to make sure that this happens in the council .
"however , the decisive point is that the council must take action on the legislation ."
"in my opinion , we should set two targets ."
we must do both things at the same time .
"there will no monetary union unless there is budgetary , economic and political convergence ."
expenditure can be cut or taxes can be increased .
"all states can cut expenditure at the same time , although separately , without needing any european coordination ."
your communication last week contained absolutely no mention at all of this issue .
this is the added value which the european commission can provide at the present time .
"unfortunately , you do not have any plans in this area ."
mr verhofstadt was saying that you had a right to take the initiative .
"in the current situation , you have a duty to take the initiative in this area ."
greece will be no different .
"mr president , the lesson to be learned from this crisis is be honest and keep your word ."
countries failing to do those things must leave the euro area .
"it is a european punishment mechanism , with the international monetary fund playing bad cop ."
"for six months , we have been calling on the european central bank to change its policy ."
"for six months , we have been calling on you to investigate the unacceptable american credit rating agencies ."
you did not do so .
"mr president , we can all recall the pompous presentation made by the spanish prime minister earlier this year ."
"however , spain is now following greece with a deficit of 11 % in gdp ."
"the hedge funds may be taking advantage of the situation , but they did not cause the crisis ."
"in any case , the eu always takes the opportunity ."
the president cut off the speaker 
this would really just mean going from bad to worse .
we know that austerity programmes will soon be the order of the day throughout europe .
the commission has tolerated all of this .
i would like to join in mr verhofstadt's criticism .
"it is not a crisis in the system or in the euro , but a crisis in government ."
it has not come up with any ideas or any incentives .
the commission has accepted everything that has been thrown at it .
i can only agree with mr bullmann in this respect .
where are the concrete proposals ?
will we once again be given a basis for discussion for the next two or three years ?
that is simply not enough .
everyone here knows that the cooperation of the member states on economic and financial issues is long overdue .
that is the cause of this crisis .
the diversionary tactics aimed at areas of the financial market represent the wrong approach .
i think this is irresponsible .
the crisis is not theeuro crisis in greece.
it is a crisis that has demonstrated three intolerable asymmetries that must be overcome .
the first is the asymmetry between the real economy and the financial economy .
we had the opportunity to recall that europe cannot be built solely with an internal market and monetary union .
"europe is not principally built on those things , but on citizenship ."
"without that citizenseurope , this crisis will be impossible to resolve ."
sailing a ship through a storm is not easy .
i have a message for each of you .
do not put your name to this mockery .
"as mr verhofstadt said , we need another way ."
we also need financial supervision .
it has just been explained to us that parliament is going too far .
i am rapporteur for the european systemic risk board .
your presidency is responsible for this package .
be ambitious !
you have our support .
do not listen to those in the council who capitalise on the lack of regulation .
this is exactly what our governments have also been doing .
new leadership in the uk gives us a clear mandate to reassess the true state of finances .
eu 2020 should lay the bill at the right door .
"this way , we preserve the european social model ."
the rich will get richer and the poor will get poorer .
i will make an attempt with europeanist rhetoric .
"just a few weeks ago here in this house , many of us pledged our solidarity with greece ."
"indeed , of what use is europe if not to support member states in need ?"
is it europeanist rhetoric if we request new regulations for the financial markets ?
"europe must strongly reprimand the states to be responsible , stable and serve the future generations ."
the crisis we are experiencing is the crisis of european policy's inability to govern the market .
"when we exit the house , mr president , we may find ourselves poorer and more insecure ."
we must discard the old approach of coordinating national policies and equip ourselves with strong decision making instruments .
the eur 750 billion rescue package was important but we have realised that it is not enough .
the monetary and budget policies have proven inadequate in assuring productivity and competitiveness .
"de mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the european governments are being driven by the markets ."
"at last they are reacting , but they are reacting after the event and not in advance ."
it is scandalous that the governments and the commission only react when the real weaknesses appear in the markets .
they should have identified these weaknesses themselves at an early stage .
"the rules were broken very quickly and right at the start , even by the larger member states ."
the commission must take action in this area .
"however , that is no reason for failing to develop a common european approach ."
this is urgently needed .
we need more europe and not less europe .
this may well be our last chance .
i am thinking of a variety of crises which require cooperation and solidarity .
i am not thinking just of financial crises here .
"people have been killed , and there have been heavy material losses ."
political strengthening is not being followed by the appropriate financial strengthening .
global governance is being established .
what influence will europeans have ?
how are we going to influence this global governance if we are incapable of establishing our own european governance ?
and what is happening now ?
"of course , we have to respect the stability and growth pact , which must be reformed ."
growth means investment .
"if the public sector does not invest , we cannot expect the private sector to do so ."
we must face the facts .
there are three issues that must be tackled .
"we have been living beyond our means , especially in some countries ."
this crisis does not remain static .
"this crisis was economic and financial , and will have a growing social dimension involving social conflict ."
it is not only a crisis of the euro .
let us analyse all the political and electoral processes in recent months .
"secondly , we need to dare to tell the truth about what is happening to us ."
i think that what is needed now is mention of the role of the member states .
this is true for portugal and it is also true for other member states that are in difficult situations .
we are talking about the funding of the strategic flagship project europe 20why are we in this situation ?
the main reason is that we have spent beyond our means and run up credit .
more regulation is not a guarantee against the risks of the current crisis .
what is also clear is that fiscal and monetary policies are not substitutes for structural reforms .
the european commission and the european parliament should regain their strategic role and go for brave european solutions .
both citizens and markets need more europe .
but it is also time to look around and see what other actions are contributing to the recent turmoil .
"in the 1930s , the gold standard and protectionism contributed to a deepening of the recession ."
now I am all for free markets protectionism does not work .
but are our markets free ?
the markets were well massaged and influenced towards getting us into the crisis in the first place .
it is time for political leaders to reflect on just what is happening .
i would like to hear from the presidency of the council and from the commissioner .
what is being done to police this ?
"when we did not police these people in the past , look where they led us ."
so do not have just one prong on your fork it is time to have two prongs .
i represent the last country to join the euro area .
we must raise awareness that the monetary crisis may have serious political consequences .
these may include increased euroscepticism and uncertainty among those countries that are preparing to enter the euro area .
we need to help and encourage those countries that have not yet introduced the single currency .
"in devising the eu 2020 strategy , policies that guarantee sustainable development must be given a major role ."
we must also make people aware that the capacity of current alternative energy sources is finite .
ro I very warmly welcome the measures put forward by the commission and council .
"in addition , there are no mechanisms in place for monitoring the measures adopted ."
"last year , large sums of money were injected into banks ."
"this was a necessary measure , but saving the banks has not helped mitigate the crisis later on ."
the crisis has continued .
the growth and stability pact has not been adhered to .
unacceptable deficits have been run up .
states have taken different measures in similar situations .
some have decided to tell their citizens the truth and adopt austerity measures .
"we cannot consume more than we produce , nor can we spend more than we can collect ."
we need financial stability .
"mr president , I will abide by your rule ."
i welcome the spanish presidency's comments about productive systems and a focus on competitiveness .
member states could have reacted more swiftly when the banking crisis hit .
we are capable of doing it but we seem not to have done it in this particular instance .
"finally , the commission is looking for four pillars of a new strategy ."
i think the commission needs to examine its own role in this crisis .
giving you more power will only work if you actually use the power you already have .
"on the other hand , it provides an opportunity as well ."
it can give an important fillip in terms of supporting the economic and social reforms required long term .
solidarity and adaptability must be the principles on which it is founded .
they must be adapted according to the possibilities of each country .
the romanian government has set up a high level working group which will set national objectives .
"at the same time , it will help coordinate the drafting of the national reform plan ."
"the first victim was greece , followed by spain and portugal ."
"it would appear that the protagonists of the international economic crisis are now the states , not the banks ."
we need to learn from this adversity .
"the people of europe want a more humane europe , with fewer inequalities between the member states ."
"sv mr president , europe needs more cooperation and more solidarity not protectionism and nationalism ."
we know that history has taught us .
"in recent months , even hardened finance ministers were , and should have been , afraid ."
a vein of national self assertion can certainly be detected here .
"by all means scrutinise other countries , but not mine ."
"scrutinise greece , spain and portugal , but not my country ."
noli me tangere touch me not !
our mutual dependence requires openness and trust .
"take a look at asia , commissioner ."
they do not have such a high percentage of educated people there or as many universities as we do .
there are systemic flaws in the approach to economic policy of the eu and its member states .
the value of a currency must reflect the state of health of the economy it serves .
"however , there are other distinct problems ."
the embrace of globalisation by the eu and its individual member states is a recipe for disaster .
we cannot allow goods and workers from low wage countries to flood into europe .
we cannot compete with their goods without reducing our wage rates to their levels .
joining the eurozone at this moment is not just a privilege .
conscientious implementation of the principles of the stability and growth pact should be a priority .
this is a key to ensuring budgetary and macro economic stability in the european union .
the president interrupted the speaker 
"therefore , I would ask that we plan the future of europe responsibly ."
we have to appreciate them dearly .
"otherwise , it will go badly ."
"i think there is one thing we could stop doing , and that is ridiculing greece ."
"as mr schmidt said , finland and sweden were greece in the early 1990s ."
"we had to take decisions that were just as hard , but we succeeded ."
i am sorry to interrupt you .
now is the right time to incorporate the short term stabilisation measures into a long term strategy .
we need a vision of a market economy .
the fundamental principle of the social market economy is already laid down in the treaty of lisbon .
we must now bring it to life .
the social market economy was the successful model behind germany's economic miracle .
competitiveness is not the start but the result of economic activity .
the answer isno.
the euro must not be allowed to turn the eu into a huge redistribution mechanism based on mandatory solidarity .
"if we are to have a monetary union , it must be a hard monetary union ."
"therefore , we need clear rules in the europe 2020 strategy to deal with speculators and hedge funds ."
let us set an example to taxpayers and remind the financial sector of its obligations at last .
we also need to be braver in applying the rules to the member states .
any state which deliberately falsifies its figures must quite simply be ejected from the euro area .
countries which commit fraud must leave .
"overall , we must focus on the small and medium sized enterprises smes ."
the commission has simply forgotten to include objectives to strengthen small and medium sized companies in this programme .
"in my view , that is the right way forward and it is important that we take that route ."
we all perform better when there is somebody looking over our shoulder .
that applies to governments as well as to individuals .
we need confidence to achieve this and the people of europe need perspectives .
"in the europe of the future , growth should not only benefit the few ."
economic governance should now be proposed as a matter of urgency .
i understand that the commission is proposing to scrutinise the national budgets in advance .
"personally , I do not think we should switch horses ."
what is urgently needed is european economic governance and not prior scrutiny of the national budgets .
"in this regard , the eu 2020 strategy includes some ideas about the future cap ."
let us say clearly and honestly that there was no coordination of financial policy in our union .
"the stability and growth pact was not adhered to , and financial discipline was not maintained ."
i would like to ask where was the european central bank ?
where was the commission ?
the response was to move forward and adopt a new treaty .
"the other alternatives , of course , are clearly populism or protectionism , and they are not an option ."
that is the way to respond to this situation right now .
the first aspect is solidarity .
"secondly , just today , parliament has been examining a financial supervision package ."
"therefore we can do it , of course we can do it ."
"thirdly , we need to commit to competitiveness ."
we cannot wait much longer for this .
do not expect anything else expect us to do precisely that .
i strongly agree with those of you who have called for an economic union to complement the monetary one .
"this is the way forward , and this is the critical lesson we must learn from the crisis ."
we have to work on three strengths .
it is much better to act at a european level and to do it as soon as possible .
the president cut off the speaker 
"colleagues , this is the round up of a very important debate ."
the commissioner has the floor .
please read those 10 pages of the communication on reinforcing economic governance in europe .
"ten pages sounds short , but it is full of concrete initiatives ."
"this is heavy stuff , which is what we need in europe ."
"i will come up with concrete proposals , legislative proposals , shortly ."
we have taken the initiative and we shall move on .
mr verhofstadt said that we should not wait for the task force .
we do not have the luxury of time .
"instead , we must act without delay ."
it is now absolutely essential to move on with these initiatives .
i therefore want to conclude by saying that we need an alliance of institutions to pursue these objectives .
"dear friends , we need nothing more than full steam ahead to reinforce economic governance in europe ."
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
"if there is any lesson worth learning from the current economic crisis , it must be solidarity ."
the fact that we are living in a globalised world where stateseconomies are interdependent is nothing new .
the necessary change will grow out of this struggle and its drive towards progress .
the complexity of today's challenges requires an integrated set of political instruments .
it is excellent that the europe 2020 strategy should take account of young people .
"it does not , however , go far enough ."
the content is limited and pessimistic .
there are not enough concrete objectives and more of them are needed .
the figures for youth unemployment are alarming .
it is more than double than what it is in other unemployment categories .
almost half of young people are unemployed in latvia and spain .
"the longer people remain unemployed , the greater the risk , not just of poverty , but of exclusion ."
predictions suggest that there will be a shortage of workers .
it is not necessarily such a straightforward procedure to integrate long term unemployed young people back into society .
we need concrete measures .
"the young need jobs , not promises ."
"they have been used successfully in the past few years by numerous eu institutions , including eurostat ."
"furthermore , I would like to refer to the employment indicator , which should be treated as a priority ."
this would allow political responsibility to be strengthened and actions to be correlated with results .
fair competition in the internal market is a key to the competitiveness of european agriculture in the global marketplace .
i must admit that the minister's argument is convincing .
the creative industries can be treated as something which will allow europe to build a competitive advantage .
the europe 2020 strategy was discussed at an informal meeting of ministers for culture in march this year .
i hope these appeals will be heard and put into practice .
i would particularly like to focus at this point on strengthening multi level governance .
"several member states , including estonia , have made large cutbacks in the interests of balancing the national budget ."
"while fulfilling the maastricht criteria for the euro area , estonia has been able to stabilise its own budget ."
both the world of finance and economic activity no longer know their limits .
we need predictive and longterm solutions and tools to help us manage future crises better than we do now .
the dawdling probably caused the situation to escalate .
all these measures must be accompanied by a clear timetable which is easy to implement and monitor .
"another is to fight poverty , which is intended to improve the situation of 20 million people ."
these effects are much to be desired and very ambitious .
"our objective is a modernised labour market with a highly specialised , precisely oriented and very efficient workforce ."
"however , I think this will be difficult to achieve ."
"at present , 15 % of young people do not complete a full secondary education ."
various aspects of the lisbon strategy in which there was little success can be identified .
"in march , the european commission presented a new economic development plan for europe ."
"after the lisbon strategy , europe 2020 is the next attempt at reviving the european economy ."
the economies of europe are strongly linked .
none of the member states is able to mount effective resistance to global threats on its own .
"not doing this may lead to another lost decade , a lasting halt to growth and mass unemployment ."
the new strategy is based on very ambitious ideas .
thank you .
calendar of part sessions
can you please stop it ?
applause 
"mr atkins , we take good note of your remark or protest or whatever it is ."
i am calling for this to be stopped .
the presidency has taken note to act accordingly .
"however , taking note is the first step . after taking note , one acts accordingly ."
welcome
we would like to extend a warm welcome to the kuwaiti delegation .
applause 
we therefore wish mr al debaqbasi and his colleagues a fruitful stay with us .
request for consultation of the european economic and social committee citizens initiative vote 
request for consultation of the committee of the regions citizens initiative vote 
european refugee fund for the period 2008 2013 amendment of decision no 573 / 2007 / ec 
labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy related products recast 
amending budget no 1 / 2010 section I parliament 
"2008 discharge eu general budget , council "
after the vote 
"we have been given , for example , documents from the year before ."
standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation 
before the vote 
today is a great day for european citizens and for european patients .
i would like to thank all of the political groups who are intending to support my directive .
"ladies and gentlemen , this is not about politics , it is about people's health ."
thank you very much indeed .
parliament's calendar of part sessions 2011 vote 
on amendment 4 
applause 
i would like to ask you to reconsider this .
"however , this does not conflict with the amendment tabled by my group ."
my group's amendment aims to move the strasbourg week from week 10 to week that does not prevent you from holding a plenary session on the second tuesday in march .
i would like to ask you to reconsider this .
on amendment 4 
"fr I shall be very brief , mr president ."
amendment 2 proposes that this part session period be postponed to the following week .
"if parliament were to approve this amendment , we would be in breach of article 2accordingly , it is declared to be inadmissible ."
before the vote on amendment 3 
"de mr president , I am sorry , but it is not as simple as that ."
"you have quoted article 229 completely correctly , but it is not in conflict with our amendment ."
"article 229 refers to a specific day , which is the second tuesday in march ."
"our amendment refers to the strasbourg week as a whole , which consists of four days ."
"therefore , it must be admissible to move this plenary week in strasbourg from week 10 to week that does not prevent anyone from holding a plenary session in brussels on the second tuesday in march ."
"as you say yourself , those are the terms of the treaty ."
"mr lehne , this amendment raises a question that could very well be open to different interpretations ."
it goes without saying that any other interpretation merits respect .
"however , as the presidency has to decide , it has so decided ."
before the vote 
i request that you take appropriate action .
applause 
food additives other than colours and sweeteners bovine and / or porcine thrombin 
before the vote 
"mr president , we do not need to take a detour with regard to this vote ."
we can decide directly .
a steak must be a steak and a ham must be a ham .
i am sure that this is what the constituents of all the members of this house want .
"indeed , it is already used in some countries ."
"as regards safety and hygiene , efsa evaluated the product and concluded that this additive raised no safety concerns ."
"secondly , the reasonable technological need for this product has been established ."
the enzyme preparation functions as a stabiliser in the final meat product .
"this technological function is explicitly described in the food additives regulation , which was adopted by parliament ."
"firstly , the product can only be sold pre packed to the final consumer ."
"the consumer , therefore , will be well informed about the nature of the product ."
"thirdly , the name of the enzyme and its animal origin must be mentioned in the list of ingredients ."
"if more stringent labelling requirements are indicated , they will be considered ."
our proposal clarifies the situation and would oblige member states to apply the required labelling rules .
"as a consequence , the consumer would be better informed ."
"this additive is , in my opinion , an example of a food sector development which will benefit consumers ."
my position is in line with this commitment .
action plan on organ donation and transplantation 2009 2015 
"review conference of the rome statute of the international criminal court in kampala , uganda "
before the vote on amendment 3 
voting time
we shall now proceed to the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
explanations of vote
i also raised a point of order concerning the calendar and it is an important point .
i would like to ask you to check whether amendment 4 was unlawful .
"i know that we rejected the amendment , but this is a question of principle ."
the amendment tabled by mr fox attempted to combine the august and the september plenary sessions in one week .
i would really like to clarify that this is unlawful .
"mr president , the commissioner informed us just before the vote about the thrombin issue ."
"if he misinformed parliament , just before the vote , that would be a serious error ."
i would like you to write a letter to the commissioner to justify those statements .
"we are not dealing with that item now , mr schlyter . we are dealing with explanations of vote ."
we are dealing with explanations of vote concerning the amending budget .
oral explanations of vote
cs I voted against the report of vladimír maňka setting out the eu budget for this year .
this will cost taxpayers an additional eur 13.4 million per year .
meps are already the subject of public criticism over the large sums of public money they receive .
"pl in contradistinction to the previous speaker , I endorsed the amending budget ."
it is not an amendment which only concerns accounting .
this amendment makes very good sense .
how is this ?
let us remember that each commissioner has a team of hundreds of people working with them .
we have just one or two people to support us .
"so it is not a saving which we are ostensibly talking about , here ."
"it is simply a response to a new function , a new role ."
"i would like to thank the rapporteur , mr maňka , for his superb report ."
that is one of the most important objectives .
"mr president , I very much welcome this report and the new european rules for organ donation ."
"if you die in another european union country , why should your organ not be used to save life ?"
"if you need a rare match from another european country , surely these rules are sensible to implement ."
we have to close the gap .
let our surgeons do their work .
let our patients be treated .
this is the gift of life .
"de mr president , I can only agree with the previous speaker ."
i am also very grateful that this report was adopted today with a large majority .
"if this is not followed by promoting donation , it seems to me we will simply stop half way ."
"if you hadn't done so , it would probably be the case that we would be still here ."
all this would make strasbourg more attractive because it is a beautiful city .
"i understand why we are here , and once we are here , we are very happy ."
"mr president , I voted in favour of the resolution on the transplantation of human organs ."
many people die every day because they suffer from organ failure and because organs are unavailable .
"the eu can help patients waiting for organs across europe and , as a consequence , save lives ."
what we need is a well coordinated system of organ donation and transplantation .
we must defuse the debate about meat glues .
thrombin is naturally present in all meat .
"to avoid thrombin , it would be necessary to stop eating meat completely ."
"the commission's experts state that thrombin is not hazardous to health , and this opinion is scientifically based ."
the important thing is that food is safe and that consumers are not deceived .
packaging must include accurate information about thrombin and the labelling must be clear .
why should we ban thrombin ?
to do so would be to open pandora's box .
is it really the job of politicians to manage our food ?
where will it end ?
there are no grounds here for limiting consumersfreedom and their right to freedom of choice .
do not resort to a ban tighten up the rules on labelling instead .
it is pure populism .
we are not fulfilling our responsibilities if we do not follow the scientific evidence .
what is the evidence ?
what is thrombin ?
thrombin is a natural enzyme .
it forms part of the blood and therefore of meat .
all of us have a lot of thrombin in our bodies .
we can do this by using labelling in line with the new regulation on the labelling of foodstuffs .
we will be voting on the first reading of this regulation in june .
we have a number of rules that prevent misleading advertising and we also have additional labelling for special products .
the commission has proposed exactly the same solution for labelling products in which thrombin is used as a glue .
"i am calling on the council to follow this approach , which is also supported by the commission ."
"today , we had to vote on glued meat ."
glued meat is meat which is glued together and sold as a high quality product .
the decision today was not an easy one for me .
this means that it may be used but not indicated on the label .
"therefore , I think a labelling requirement is not sufficient in this case ."
i have now voted in favour of the resolution and of a ban on thrombin .
"among other things , it has unlawfully disbanded or had disbanded nearly every single street demonstration ."
"on the other hand , controlling the process would be rather difficult ."
"de mr president , the citizens of europe are right ."
they like honest foods and they like honest politicians .
i respect public opinion of this kind .
we cannot simply ignore public opinion and we cannot simply dismiss it as populism .
that is not the case .
we must take notice of what our citizens are saying to us .
this is why I have voted against allowing thrombin to be used as a food glue .
we do not want glued meat in europe .
this means that we must call on the commission not to authorise the use of thrombin .
"if this enzyme is used , consumers must be able to identify its presence ."
this is the basis for effective and fair consumer protection .
our job is to ensure that mature consumers have sufficient information to make decisions in their own interests .
one final remark about glued ham .
the discussion with consumers about whether or not they want it has not yet taken place .
"however , it is important that consumers at least know what they are actually eating ."
"et I welcome the action plan , and I therefore voted in favour of it ."
"it was rather alarming that national laws could be , as it were , censured by that court ."
"one might wonder , however , if this procedure will not result in a certain kind of overlap ."
it has also assimilated this legislation as arising from the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights .
"however , past experience is less encouraging than was indicated yesterday by several members during the debate ."
"there are hundreds of thousands , indeed millions of people who fall into that category ."
i fear that we are getting mixed up in something rather complicated .
all eu member states have ratified the rome statute .
these crimes cannot be committed with impunity .
written explanations of vote
it must seem that I am repeating what I expressed yesterday in relation to mr tavaresreport .
"therefore , I am in favour of creating a fund at a european level ."
labels will contain more energy consumption information for domestic appliances and energy related products .
it is inconceivable that the government does not agree to this recommendation on this basis .
i supported this important report .
"in that framework , the agreement reached on the energy labelling directive brings important added value ."
it is a balanced text that ensures a situation that is beneficial to the market and consumers .
"in this way , all members of the european public will become involved in combating climate change ."
it is absolutely crucial to ensure that consumers are able to consciously make more environmentally friendly choices .
this will also lead to an increase in confidence in technical assessment and the information content on labels .
"nevertheless , the directive seems to have the right objective ."
putting this information on product labels also shows the high quality of the product .
i voted for this report .
it acknowledges that the market is incapable of ensuring rational energy use .
"this is a definite concession that echoes our arguments , which I welcome ."
i also welcome the stated desire for top down harmonisation of energy saving labelling .
the approval of this directive is especially important in increasing this awareness .
that is why I voted as I did .
"of course , the public procurement process should set a good example in this respect ."
"in my opinion , that is particularly important in all areas of life ."
"in this case , the question is related to the electricity used and its efficiency ."
"people actually want to save energy , and mostly do this for two reasons , economic and environmental ."
it will establish the fulcrum of an integrated and sustainable policy from an environmental standpoint .
it provides an important added value for both the market and consumers .
i therefore repeat with conviction that I fully support the directive .
it will also produce additional reductions amounting to approximately 78 mt of co2 emissions .
mr maňka's report proposes several amendments to the european parliament's 2010 budget .
these include the eur 1 500 per month increase in membersassistance expenses .
parliament needs to increase its expertise in legislative issues in order to match the commission and the member states .
we represent european citizens and we need appropriate resources if we wish to defend their interests .
i therefore supported this report .
"however , I do not share the view that we meps need more staff ."
the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will probably cause a significant rise in parliament's workload .
the work in the european parliament has undoubtedly increased because of the treaty of lisbon .
the treaty of lisbon has given parliament new responsibilities .
"this situation means additional administrative work , with the result that members need qualified staff to act as advisors ."
this situation leads to increased costs .
that is why I voted as I did .
i voted in favour .
"though it may seem like demagogy or another caste privilege , in this case it is not ."
the budget amendments are important and essential for the proper management of the life and activity of parliament .
"to do that , resources are needed ."
"i voted against the report on the supplementary budget for 20for one thing , you cannot employ highly trained experts for eur 1 500 per month ."
"secondly , there is no room for new staff in parliament's working premises ."
"thirdly , a proportion of the budget funds have been taken out of the reserve specifically for building investments ."
this is absolutely vital to the credibility of the european institutions and public confidence in those in power .
the procedure of discharging the budget is important and the legislative and supervisory activities of parliament hinge upon it .
"moreover , it is also fundamental in light of our citizensexpectations ."
"for the reasons I have stated , I commend the rapporteur and express my agreement ."
the european parliament's supervision of the council's finances is far from being transparent .
i support this report on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation .
it also sets out in more detail the procurement process and issues connected with the information system .
the traceability and protection of donors and recipients also deserve special attention .
"consequently , ukip members voted against this report ."
i voted for the draft directive on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation .
"such a transparent , safe and efficient donation system is the only way to combat organ trafficking ."
"i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive for the following reasons it is unacceptable that , on average , 12 people awaiting a transplant die every day ."
"in general in the eu , there is a broad social consensus on the donation of organs for transplantation ."
organ donation must always be free and protected from any potential commercialisation .
"the number of transplants in the european union has increased , saving and prolonging many lives ."
"however , there are still long waiting lists for transplants ."
the report also tackles the worrying issue of human organ trafficking in a way that seems appropriate to us .
specific training programmes should thus be developed for these professionals .
"for all these reasons , we voted for this proposal ."
that is why I voted as I did .
"organ transplants can save lives , but only when a healthy organ from a matching donor is transplanted ."
i would like to express my vote in favour of mr mikolášik's report .
"therefore , we are pleased to welcome it ."
i hope this will make the possibility of getting an organ easier and safer .
it is therefore necessary to assess this area rigorously from the perspective of the subsidiarity principle .
in writing . I was pleased to support this report in its vote through parliament .
i endorsed the report on standards of safety in organ donation because the report includes the principle of non commercialisation .
"the european parliament has adopted the calendar of plenary sessions for 20as for thecircus, it should obviously stop !"
"moreover , those that do exist have commercial timetables , which are totally incompatible with parliamentary activity ."
in writing . I enthusiastically supported the amendment proposing to reduce the two september part sessions to one .
"thus , I support any initiative willing to get rid of the strasbourg seat ."
issues relating to the diet and health of citizens are extremely sensitive and must be considered carefully and objectively .
this is very much the case with the debate on the authorisation of food additives such as thrombin .
"in addition , the overwhelming majority of member states are calling for thrombin to be authorised ."
i voted for a resolution calling for thrombin not to be used in meat .
thrombin is used as agluein reconstituted meat .
"in addition , reconstituted meat could mislead consumers seeking to buy meat ."
the guarantees given by the commission are not only unconvincing and inadequate but they also increase my concerns .
the commission's proposals do not fully deal with these reservations .
we therefore deem this resolution worthy of our support .
i very much regret the adoption of this resolution relating to the banning of porcine and bovine thrombin .
the text has no valid scientific basis .
"it is authorised in france and used in black pudding , for example ."
let us not lapse into an emotional debate !
"what is more , the labelling requirements for products containing this additive are said to have been tightened up ."
the wordthrombinand the phrasereconstituted meathave seemingly been clearly shown .
food safety and the health of european citizens are at stake .
it is time to show the commission that food safety and health are major concerns for the european parliament .
i therefore welcome this vote rejecting this enzyme .
we cannot allow the consumer to be misled by the food additive thrombin .
the key thing here is the safety of substances .
its role is to combine individual pieces of meat together into a single meat product .
a piece of meat glued together with thrombin should never be allowed to go on sale as ham .
"instead , it must be clearly labelled ascombined meat parts treated with thrombin."
i will vote in favour of the approval of this substance only if we impose a clear labelling requirement .
thrombin is currently in use .
"after today , it will not be permitted ."
there is a difference .
that is why I voted as I did .
"i voted in favour of it , nonetheless ."
"this would allow citizens to make an enlightened choice , which means that we cannot mislead anyone ."
the use of thrombin could enable many citizens to purchase food products at much more affordable prices .
i oppose the use of thrombin to glue together different pieces of meat which are mostly of poor quality .
consumers are generally unaware of what is happening and are being deceived .
"on the other hand , the process does not result in any demonstrable benefits for consumers ."
"therefore , I have voted in favour of this report , which aims to restrict these practices ."
"however , I do not think that thrombinmeat gluecomplies with this requirement ."
"as mentioned in the report , that increases the risk of meat infection ."
"in all other industries , the european union is trying to combat fabrications and forgeries ."
i do not think that the food industry should be an exception .
"clear , accurate labelling is obviously important ."
"however , in our capacity as legislators , we need to ban certain harmful products ."
i therefore agree with the opinion expressed in the resolution .
i am very pleased with today's vote banning thrombin .
this is a victory for consumers .
this is highly deceptive .
"using thrombin amounts to placing on the market a sort of prefabricated , artificial meat ."
i cannot quite see how this benefits consumers .
yet thrombin is used in some member states without consumers being informed .
the attempts to deceive consumers and to try to hide the truth must stop .
that is not the way for manufacturers to restore consumer confidence .
this is why I voted in favour of this resolution .
"however , no organ exchange network has yet been set up at the eu 27 level ."
an organ transplant is the last chance of life for thousands of people every day .
"in romania , 13 people on the transplant waiting list die every day due to the lack of donors ."
romania is faced with a tragic situation at a time when there is one donor per million inhabitants .
funding the medical system does not come cheap .
the figures speak for themselves .
approximately 60 000 patients are on a waiting list for a transplant in the member states of the eu .
"every day , 12 of them die ."
"every day , 12 patients die in the eu due to a lack of compatible donors ."
"what is more , organs are rarely exchanged between member states ."
punishments must be particularly severe for health professionals or insurance companies .
this discrepancy is the result of a shortage of organs for transplantation in comparison to need .
"the number of transplants in the european union has increased , saving and prolonging many lives ."
"however , there are still long waiting lists for transplants ."
"to seek to address these problems by creating an eu wide database is , however , a mistake ."
"additionally , there are tight time constraints on organ viability ."
"thus , an eu wide network would be of use to very few patients ."
several thousand people die each year in europe because they have been unable to receive a transplantation in time .
"of course , every possible precaution must be taken to ensure that these measures work properly ."
i voted in favour of the report on the action plan on organ donation and transplantation for 2009 20that is why I voted as I did .
i therefore voted in favour .
it is also important to highlight the leading position held by the spanish health system as regards this issue .
this has been acknowledged by all the rapporteurs and groups .
it is therefore necessary to assess this area rigorously from the perspective of the subsidiarity principle .
"ladies and gentlemen , the statistics speak for themselves ."
"every day , 12 people die waiting for an organ transplant ."
"sadly , many people are simply dying because of the great shortage of organ donors and insufficient cross border coordination ."
this sensitive issue is linked to various legal and cultural aspects .
it is also important to mobilise and inform society .
"many eu citizens are not fundamentally against donation , but are afraid of adding their names to the register ."
"therefore , donation should be as accessible as possible promotion may often be effective ."
the shortage of organs for transplantation is also a powerful stimulus for the trade in organs and people .
eu accession to the convention will further strengthen the eu's system for the protection of fundamental rights .
it is very important that people will have a new opportunity to defend their rights .
"now , the union's institutions will fall within the scope of this fundamental rights protection system ."
the european union is now participating more intimately in a continent wide human rights area .
i welcome this development .
this commitment is a step forward in the process of european integration and another step towards political unity .
the european union is therefore incapable of guaranteeing the freedom of conscience of europeans .
"eu law bears witness to this , but so do constitutional provisions of each of the member states ."
"it is also important , moreover , that parliament should be consulted and involved in the negotiating process ."
"therefore , let us continue the fight to strengthen the system of protection of human rights in the eu ."
this could be our chance to guarantee the human rights and fundamental freedoms of eu citizens .
"unfortunately , as shown by events in recent years , accusations often have a purely political overtone ."
courts both in my country and in the rest of europe are still very often susceptible to political manipulation .
this needs to change .
"for all these reasons , I voted against the resolution ."
it has taken 83 years to reach an international agreement and set up the icc .
the most serious crimes against humanity must be punished .
the international criminal court could be a useful tool in this area .
it is just a question of actually giving it the resources .
"as this is not happening , I am abstaining ."
"therefore , I voted in favour ."
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
the next item is the joint debate on the following 
this is indeed a very coherent package .
"we are talking about the direction , and also about implementation in the near future ."
"take , for example , the flagship projects that will also require our joint support before long ."
"it is really important , therefore , that we invest enough time in this now ."
the beauty of it is that we can do better indeed we must do better .
returning to my report it is an implementation report .
what have we laid down ?
"in europe , we have first class research ."
yet what is lagging behind is the utilisation of this research .
"knowledge is free it travels around the world , and cannot be kept to oneself ."
my report notes that we are currently spending one quarter of regional funds on research infrastructure and innovation .
we must also realise the importance of the territorial dimension laid down in the treaty of lisbon .
"if the union invests money , there should also be cooperation between the ."
the president cut off the speaker 
growth would even end up going into reverse if restrictive measures were to nip the recovery in the bud .
we proposed maintaining the support measures until the normal production capacity utilisation rate was restored .
interest rates are definitely under pressure and are threatening the sustainability of the debt .
the president cut off the speaker 
"this is the result of the crisis , which has weakened growth and concomitant tax revenue ."
our report seeks to offer three recommendations combined with some operational indicators .
the first is to maintain support measures until the recovery has been consolidated .
that is the position that they have defended in the committee on economic and monetary affairs .
"since that vote , the economic health of europe has deteriorated further ."
"however , the markets have fallen once again , unsettled as they are by the austerity plans ."
the ecofin council had to start all over again on monday .
"they argue for flexible implementation of the stability pact , so that an unwelcome austerity cure can be avoided ."
they advocate a public credit rating agency to shield member states from the diktat of the markets .
these are the signals that parliament must send out .
europe needs policies which are motivated by a real desire to strengthen the union .
i would like to thank all of them for their availability and interesting contributions .
"thus , a certain flexibility should be allowed for ."
this can be done by offering them a leading part in the re launch of the european single market .
the single market integration process is not an irreversible one .
its current situation needs to be challenged .
all this needs to be achieved within a spirit of compromise and solidarity .
"finally mr president , I would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and coordinators for their contributions ."
"perhaps I am being too demanding , though ."
i think that the authorities in this house will have to shoulder their responsibilities and learn lessons from this .
there is currently great concern within the committee on employment and social affairs about two issues .
i believe that fundamental change must be about much more than simply reducing the number of targets .
this is not all doom and gloom .
"in order for the eu 2020 strategy to work , we need a strong , coordinated approach ."
the decisions taken over the last few days are we think very important .
the euro crisis which we have just been through proves to us just how relevant this position still is .
i promise you that the commission will keep to its roadmap in these areas .
i am thinking about thefinancial supervisionpackage and the hedge funds document .
we must restore confidence .
we must also utilise every single resource to free up the growth potential of our economy .
this work clearly comprises many aspects .
"when we talk about europe 2020 , what are we talking about ?"
"finally , there is also the promotion of social inclusion by combating poverty ."
quantified indicators for education and social inclusion will have to be set at the june european council .
work on these two objectives is in progress in various forums of the council .
it is very important to clearly understand that the 2020 strategy is not merely a vision .
there are also certain requirements where implementation is concerned .
europe 2020 also means adopting reforms to be implemented within the member states themselves .
"during a crisis , we wish to send out clear messages to the member states ."
this is the purpose of the integrated guidelines proposed by the commission .
these will only be adopted once you have tabled your opinions .
"there are other examples , and this is a very important undertaking ."
"i think that in the coming weeks , we ought to focus mainly on this issue ."
europe 2020 must begin here and now and should not be just a catalogue of objectives .
to think in those terms and with each of us making a contribution to the whole .
europe 2020 means the willingness to bring about a political union .
none of these things are ready and there is a great deal that has not even been addressed .
"europe 2020 is a community union , not a nationalist or obstructive europe ."
the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149 8 
the citizens are our most important allies in achieving our joint objectives .
the decisions that we are refusing to take today will lead to new crises .
the decisions that we take today must be long term decisions .
we cannot do this by convincing ourselves that we can keep following the same old tracks .
"but now , sadly , we have a quadruple crisis if we add the state budget crisis ."
it has made it painfully clear that the european union is in dire need of vision .
"european integration has , until now , focused on creating new projects without making sure that they work properly ."
europe needs a forward looking union .
"for me , the direction is clear I want a europe which is open , inclusive and green ."
and here I have some question marks .
"firstly , the overarching goal of the strategy is to create a more dynamic and competitive economy ."
a gender equal labour market is a precondition for boosting jobs and for tackling the demographic challenges .
an inclusive society needs more jobs .
unemployment is the main reason why poverty exists .
"youth unemployment in spain , at 44 % , is devastating ."
"we have endless opportunities to create green jobs , but our policies must be aimed in the same direction ."
this is important for the european citizens and for us in parliament .
"to do this , we absolutely must have european coordination ."
"this is the conclusion reached in mr monti's report , which was submitted two days ago ."
"however , there is no mention whatsoever of this issue in the eu 2020 strategy presented by the commission ."
there is no mention whatsoever of this issue in mr rehn's communication published a few days ago .
what are your proposals ?
you are not entitled to stay silent .
"but , on the other hand , it is rather an unfocused debate ."
he talked about the seven flagship initiatives .
"well , we do not know the details of those yet ."
we need to spend more time on it together to work through the details .
that will not be overcomplicating things because it ought to be the number one initiative .
they will get the benefits .
it is the biggest single underdeveloped policy that we have .
"we have the instruments , but we need to carry them out ."
the european parliament has been allowed to sit on the sidelines but no more than that .
this has mainly been to the detriment of the european parliament .
we want to introduce a whole raft of specific changes .
none of that has been incorporated into the strategy .
"now , that is a fundamental demand which we are dealing with here ."
the proposed eu 2020 strategy aiming to contribute to economic growth and employment seeks to provide this .
the strategy rightly covers healthy public finances .
"however , the initiative will be useful only if two conditions are met ."
"it is not just a matter of structures and rules , then , but of mentality ."
"as far as I am concerned , strengthening of economic coordination ought to cover this ."
objectives in those fields cannot be enforced at european level and rightly so .
we saw in the case of the lisbon strategy that such an approach does not work .
"that proved to be a complete failure , of course ."
are you surprised that our economy is stagnating ?
greece clearly must be expelled from the euro area .
i already know your answer absolutely nothing .
"now there is a need for action , for decisions and for restored confidence in public finances ."
but there will be none of the growth which is needed without restored confidence in public finances .
"on this point , the socialists are failing ."
mrs ulvskog from sweden proposes increased spending .
"the socialists have become a threat to prosperity , recovery and the new jobs that europe needs ."
they are not waiting on the group of the european people's party christian democrats .
"no , sir ."
"if our analysis is faulty , our solutions will likewise be faulty ."
europe will not gain in competitiveness without winning the productivity battle .
these are our strong points .
these are our hopes .
what determines our growth ?
it is therefore right that one chapter in the eu 2020 strategy is innovation union .
we need to focus on inventions and on how we can reinforce research and development .
"with that , it is important that we enhance the synergies of research funding and regional development policy ."
a great deal more could be done in those areas .
we should encourage people to take their destinies into their own hands through personal responsibility and self initiative .
governments cannot create jobs they need to be created in the economy itself .
there are studies which have shown that 8 million new jobs can be created through the energy transition alone .
"in the europe 2020 strategy , we therefore need an initiative for green jobs ."
this initiative must be reflected in specific measures and integrated guidelines .
"therefore , we need stable legal and political frameworks , so that investors really do invest in green jobs ."
that is what the van nistelrooij report states and I endorse it .
i address those words to commissioner andor .
"fundamentally , the structure of the employment policy guidelines presented is right and balanced ."
of particular importance is the fact that education has been emphasised as an independent area of focus .
"however , we also to need to improve the guidelines ."
"however , there is the risk of applying a treatment which is much worse than the disease ."
"tax competition , like every kind of competition , is good for the citizens and the markets ."
none of the new countries are likely to be contributors .
"in 2020 , therefore , there are likely to be no less than 23 countries being subsidised ."
"unfortunately and unfairly , the uk taxpayer is caught up in this ."
the comparatively impoverished uk is the second largest contributor to the eu budget .
voters in other contributing countries will also saynoin the next 10 years .
"by 2020 , the gap will be unbridgeable ."
"the 2020 strategy , therefore , misses the point ."
"for 40 meps , that makes two interpreters per person ."
we still do not know if the crisis will act to deepen the differences between different regions of europe .
both the europe 2020 strategy and cohesion policy aim to achieve the same goal .
they have a crucial effect on economic revival and huge significance for european solidarity policy .
"however , what is needed is better coordination between them ."
we must ensure the financing of key infrastructure projects and reject the renationalisation of regional policy .
we need true european solidarity .
that is precisely what the policy of the european union should be based on .
i would therefore like us to move further in this direction in the 2020 strategy .
"commissioner , my question is therefore very simple ."
instead they are moving backwards .
it is therefore simply a matter of getting started .
"secondly , other member states , including my own , denmark , have criticised the definition of poverty ."
of course we need to come up with a good definition .
that is what the real debate is about .
"do we want to reduce the number of poor people in europe , which currently stands at 84 million ?"
"do we want to reduce the number of poor workers , of which there are nearly 17 million ?"
"do we not only want everyone to have jobs , but to also have good and proper jobs ?"
do we want young people to have access to the labour market ?
"i hope that , as commissioners , you are prepared to do this ."
cs we have spent the entire day discussing a desirable strategic focus for the european union .
i can confirm this with one concrete example .
"el mr president , the current lisbon strategy has simply been renamed europe 2020 strategy ."
"despite this , the proposals tabled by the commission do not include sufficiently social criteria ."
does the involvement of the international monetary fund not mean more onerous terms for the member states and people ?
"when there were problems there , they called for more socialism ."
let us build on a foundation of nation states .
"for that , we have to bake our bread before we distribute it , as we say in finland ."
let us create jobs and the right conditions .
that will be the source of our strength .
that is how we will make progress .
small enterprises are crucial .
we should postpone the debate on the owner driversworking time directive until the next partsession .
"there is a danger now , however , that we will lose jobs on account of administrative decisions ."
"i really love europe , even if I do not love the european union ."
that is precisely the state of affairs right now !
it is high time that the europe 2020 strategy put a stop to hedge fund speculators .
"not small savers , but companies with their high speculative profits should be asked to foot the bill ."
nor should the cohesion policy ignore the euro crisis .
"apart from the current rescue package , greece has benefited disproportionately in the past from agricultural and regional funding ."
i do not see why we should leave the money tap on in such a situation .
why do we not listen to commissioner rehn who has made the rather reasonable proposal that we cut funding ?
"finally , we cannot allow the eu to degenerate into a union of transfers ."
what is needed then ?
"a self responsible budgetary policy , and if it does not work , courageous and effective sanction mechanisms ."
all of that should be included in the europe 2020 strategy .
the urgency of the situation justifies the practical approach adopted .
"without such confidence , no structural reform or acceptance of the necessary austerity measures will be possible ."
"faced with the financial crisis , europe has not been inactive ."
we do not say this often enough .
"last monday , the same committee adopted the report on regulation of hedge fund managers by a large majority ."
trialogues have been initiated to seek an agreement with the council .
"this agreement must be obtained rapidly , so that our institutions retain their credibility ."
our fellow citizens often ask us what is europe doing ? 
we must meet their expectations .
your ambitious but essential timetable has our support .
we will stand shoulder to shoulder with you so that the necessary regulation of financial services takes place .
"however , europe is at a turning point if it does not find a new modus operandi ."
"we are at a turning point , fellow members ."
it has been a very interesting report to work on .
the commission has brought forward very good proposals in recent weeks .
that is exactly what we need .
"that is why the discussions in the committee were exciting , to say the least ."
"this was an important report , and I think we made positive amendments to it ."
i am convinced that the decision this house reaches will be a sound one .
"it is not the whole story , though ."
the commission has a total lack of ambition in this regard .
hardly a word has been said about the banks .
what this crisis has shown is that a clear distinction must be made between savings banks and investment banks .
where is the commission's ambition when it comes to plans for tackling this ?
that was my first point .
"however , we must also look at the economy of the future ."
the economy of the future will make efficient use of its natural resources .
"here , too , the commission has too little ambition ."
how are companies to get the message that they should invest in green technology ?
"we feel the commission's plans should cover this , too ."
this means that the structural funds must ultimately be used to promote new green technology .
"at the moment , we are mainly subsidising more greenhouse gas emissions ."
"where is the money for innovation , and where are the appropriations for sustainable agriculture in the agricultural budget ?"
"mr president , the central component of eu 2020 should not be stabilisation funds and bailouts ."
we need to be looking at how to change our economies so that they are fit for those challenges .
"the only way forward is to look at new industries via research , development and innovation ."
we should be looking at existing successful projects and using eu links to find best practice .
south wales has five significant pharmaceutical development companies with world class technology .
we need solutions to work effectively for our citizens .
"yet liberal europe's project and activities have also run out of steam , and spectacularly so ."
"with the successive crises , the last of which was the deepest of all , public debt has exploded ."
"worse still , however , the credibility of the euro area has gone up in smoke ."
the situation calls for real solidarity .
"however , the treaty of maastricht rules out any solidarity between countries in the euro area ."
this is the ultimate european paradox .
"far from being our shield and protection , eu directives have frequently stolen a march on the wto ."
"for the sake of the peoples , eu policy must be urgently refocused ."
we are currently witnessing an unprecedented weakening of the capacity of states to respond .
extraordinary situations require clear joint action .
weakened and indebted states do not have the capacity to protect their citizens .
we must do this or risk compromising our future .
"de mr president , the current cohesion policy started life with the title of the lisbon strategy ."
"in principle , we need to take joint responsibility for the funds that are available to us ."
it is a bit like hardware and software one cannot work without the other .
we must therefore ensure that the cohesion policy's regional focus is recognised as part of this strategy .
we are all aware that the strategy's effective implementation will depend hugely on the way it is devised .
i believe that such a measure would run completely contrary to the cohesion policy's real objectives .
"fr mr president , the key word in this 2020 strategy is growth ."
i should like to highlight one such idea .
"what is more , a strategic vision is being developed that is almost entirely focused on the member states ."
a greater regional dimension is required in the eu's future strategy .
"we must not forget the whole small and medium enterprise sector , including both small scale manufacturers and retailers ."
innovation policy should be aimed at them also .
the challenges facing europe over the next few years are enormous .
small and medium sized enterprises are the backbone of europe's economy .
we therefore need to take them seriously in this strategy .
they lack capital and they are finding it difficult to borrow money .
we need to do something about this .
"finally , we must help small and medium sized enterprises to enter the export markets ."
these are subjects for the member states .
"however , I firmly believe that a sense of perspective is needed in our formulation of policy ."
it is not by accident that the pact was called thestability and growth pact.
an even more accurate title would have been thestability for growth pact.
we need to start talking about growth and development again .
this is the best way to stop speculation and to give genuine investors confidence instead .
"sv mr president , recent times have shown us the importance of healthy government finances ."
"otherwise , the future could be even more terrifying ."
the same applies to europe good order provides stability and growth .
"when the european union started , poverty only existed where there was no work ."
what are the prospects for 2020 ?
all this is happening in the year for combating poverty and social exclusion .
we therefore need a minimum framework of disincentives for redundancy .
proposals have been made .
both reports ultimately stress the positive impact of this measure .
"mrs schroeder might consider this a bitter pill , but obviously you need to set a target ."
"however , we need to ensure better coordination of course , especially in the areas of research and innovation ."
"that means that if these countries are doing well , the 27th member state will do well too ."
that must be one of our objectives .
"specifically , the commission intends to make budgetary surveillance and policy coordination more forward looking ."
it also makes detailed proposals against the background of the new opportunities provided by the lisbon treaty .
last week's communication already constitutes a significant contribution to the task force .
"i will just sum this up very quickly , because it is a broad subject ."
that is why europe 2020 plays an important role in this context as well .
"so these elements , in my view , are equally important in restoring trust in the european project ."
this leads me to the two questions on the europe 2020 strategy .
"there is particular interest in an explanation on the poverty target , if you will allow me ."
"after hearing the concerns of the various member states , the commission has presented a possible compromise proposal ."
"together , they reflect the multifaceted nature of poverty and the range of situations in the member states ."
the commission is actively exploring the possible solutions .
i am personally fully committed to helping you in the process in every possible way .
many governments have neither reduced student support nor scaled back enrolment .
"however , we do see signs of planned decreases in the education budgets of other countries ."
many such cuts would affect education .
other member states are exploring ways to diversify the sources of funding .
the commission will continue to watch this issue carefully .
"in some countries , financial constraints will only appear now ."
we will monitor general state budgets as well as the efficiency of investment .
let us not forget that we also intervene in this area through the structural funds .
it also helps people to return to education to renew and expand their skills .
around one third of the beneficiaries of the european social fund are young people .
we will make sure that we have the resources to reach our targets .
mt it is worrying that the economic crisis is going to give rise to long term repercussions .
"in addition , the rise in pension demands and medical assistance must be kept in mind ."
it is essential that we consider such strategies in light of the specific requirements among the various member states .
we cannot employ a one size fits all policy .
each case merits individual attention .
that will not achieve anything .
people need to be safe and secure in order to be flexible .
there needs to be some form of support that people can live on if they lose their jobs .
the commission must do more to address social dumping .
"given my limited time , I would just like to make three brief points ."
closing the stable door after the horse has bolted has always been a useless exercise .
"in fact , we have been consumed by it ."
"while this is important , very many citizens have lost trust and are now feeling abandoned ."
"finally , there is a major crisis in youth unemployment ."
we need to clarify certain points .
our party has never opposed the european support mechanism for greece .
our party simply had a perception of the measures that should have been applied .
we respect our partnersevery last euro and we thank them for their support .
"that is why we responsibly supported a different , more effective policy mix ."
enough talk .
that is the point of my speech .
keep it simple .
the euro is an historic success of european integration and we should defend and rescue it .
the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149 8 
"fr mr koumoutsakos , you do have some cheek !"
"although , I must say that the current greek government is not in any way responsible for the situation ."
i therefore think that responsibility rests more with greece and that political responsibility rests with your party .
"do you have a reply to this question , mr koumoutsakos ?"
"el sir , your speech is the result of poor information ."
that is how we arrived at today's drastic situation .
this is not an appeal to postpone our actions in the field of public finances .
i am not implying anything of the sort .
let us not be dogmatic .
this situation requires that we act intelligently .
"it also necessitates an element of flexibility in many sectors , not least in economic policy ."
"however , it is not the timing which is worst here ."
"basically , there is nothing supranational about these issues ."
they are matters for which individual countries are responsible .
"the others , quite frankly , are matters for individual member states ."
"first of all , let us get rid of some false ideas , particularly those concerning greece ."
this is not a greek crisis .
"international summits are now ignored what will be , will be ."
so now what is everybody saying ?
that the market must be reassured .
"who is the market , though ?"
how much longer do people have to endure this cynical approach ?
we cannot allow the terrorism of financial markets to bring whole countries to their knees .
"however , when a trader speculates on a country's debt , he does not risk a thing ."
when will the white collar criminals of high finance be properly punished ?
"it provides european citizens with a visible , quantifiable indicator of solidarity ."
its role is also recognised through its inclusion among the objectives of the treaty of lisbon .
all of this earns its rightful place in the europe 2020 strategy .
reliable benchmarks are needed for indicating the effectiveness and efficiency of the resources invested in this policy .
"objective , precise evaluation criteria can only be established after considering the definition of the actual concept ."
"this will provide a concrete basis for the policy , as well as for institutions and citizens ."
i believe that it is our shared responsibility to make this strategy much more a part of the solution .
this name may be very meaningful when discussed by marketing specialists .
"however , we are not talking about marketing specialists here , but about ordinary europeans ."
there is another wise hungarian saying he who grabs a lot takes little .
the best thing would perhaps be for it to deal with the most important question .
these are the points I wish to offer for your consideration .
investing in it bears no risk .
to agriculture !
"it should go to the young generation , and their development ."
not just a traditional education but one that focuses on e skills and entrepreneurship for example .
"we know that the higher one's education is , the lower the chances of losing a job ."
yet member states are not meeting the necessary commitment in fostering an ambitious knowledge economy .
short term measures will have a high long term cost .
"de mr president , the lisbon strategy did not have any sustainable success ."
why not ?
the eu 2020 strategy can be different .
"in the eu , not even two thirds of those who are capable of work are in work ."
only just under a half of all older workers have a job .
eighty million europeans are insufficiently qualified and have increasingly fewer opportunities in the labour market .
this is a situation we cannot accept .
"however , a genuine future strategy needs a social orientation ."
"commissioner andor , we are both working on that ."
what does this mean in concrete terms ?
the social security systems of member states must be adapted to democratic change .
the european globalisation fund is so constructed that those at risk of unemployment are able to find their feet .
the eu 2020 strategy will rise and fall with these three pillars .
we absolutely need to offer something positive to our citizens that will offset that situation .
"when it comes to growth and employment , we should stop putting people's interests behind those of business ."
"indeed , that must be the key objective of the eu 2020 strategy because europe needs social progress ."
we need a more active labour market policy and one which covers many areas .
it is this sector in which we can build competitiveness in relation to other parts of the world .
creativity requires stimulation and development from the earliest years of life .
culture must not be neglected in european policy .
"hence , the targets that we set ourselves are too ambitious and , at times , too inflexible ."
should we not be more ambitious than we were for the lisbon strategy ?
how ?
we need to decrease the gender pay gap by 10 % in each member state .
"member states cannot neglect to expand , improve and implement the barcelona targets in all member states ."
"i am convinced that our commissioner , mr andor , is going to do it ."
pl discussion about the europe 2020 strategy must take account of the experience of the previous strategy .
"in relation to this , we have to ask how to approach the new strategy ."
"therefore , we need to combine , integrate and produce actions associated with synergy ."
that will mean a huge burden on national economies .
"we should not , however , make a mystery out of debt ."
"as I recall , ceaucşescu's romania was a country without debt , as is north korea ."
there is alsosmart productive debt intelligent debt if that debt is invested in people .
that will not be smart or intelligent .
"ten years ago , we adopted a strategy , the lisbon strategy ."
they are wondering whether we will be able to ensure the stability of our currency .
will there be inflation ?
are we really taking to task the players in the financial markets who have contributed to the crisis ?
i would ask the commission to demand that member states exercise strict budgetary discipline and implement appropriate rules .
i would also ask for the earliest possible tightening of the stability and growth pact .
this is where we should be focusing our efforts .
"instead , it should finally take parliament seriously as an equal legislator alongside the 27 members states ."
el I agree with the previous speaker the stability pact needs to be applied .
"however , a number of other things need to be applied before the stability pact ."
"in order for the european union to be strong economically and to count globally , it needs its citizens ."
the citizens must be healthy and educated and must have work .
the single market must be centred on the citizen and must be a single market with a human face .
"lv thank you , mr president ."
i have a dog at home .
"recently , my dog took a sausage from the table and ate it ."
the question is who is to blame for the fact that the dog ate the sausage ?
"is the dog to blame , for doing what is natural to it ?"
"on the global financial markets , the value of the euro keeps falling every day ."
who is to blame for this ?
"ladies and gentlemen , I offer you the suggestion that , perhaps , the market is not to blame ."
"rather , it is the market that has pinpointed the underlying fault , the underlying cause ."
"this would restore confidence , ease the crisis and restore calm to the financial markets ."
thank you .
it is left to the member states and peer review supported by monitoring by the commission .
"el the lisbon strategy set high targets , but europe did not manage to implement them ."
there are many projects right across wales that are benefiting individuals and communities .
"so , I have no doubt that structural funds can help deliver the 2020 goals ."
"however , I would like to make the following points ."
"the 2020 strategy , the fifth cohesion report and the budget must all be aligned ."
it would also make the eu 2020 strategy relevant to individuals and citizens right across europe .
greece is not taking money from other nations .
we are not taking money from other nations .
el you are absolutely right mrs rapti .
i am greatly concerned about our future together in the eu .
i cannot just move on to the agenda without mentioning the crisis .
prosperity and jobs are not feasible without a secure monetary value .
"indeed , the cohesion policy is actually the best instrument for mobilising investment in growth and employment ."
four out of five europeans live in urban areas .
towns and cities are the driving force of economic growth in europe .
"at the same time , they are experiencing many problems particularly acutely ."
"key words here are social integration , the environment and transport , for example , but also demographic change ."
"three of these seem to me , commissioner , to be priorities ."
it is a paradox that businesses are still demanding specialisms that the market is in no position to offer .
"these means include , for example , the establishment of an eu economic government ."
"however , I should like to speak in more detail about the crisis and young people ."
"firstly , the eu 2020 strategy must be an inclusive strategy ."
"it is young people who , today , will create the growth and innovation of tomorrow ."
this is why I do not want young people to be left out of this europe 2020 strategy .
"es mr president , we approved the lisbon agenda with its very ambitious objectives in 2000 ."
"some of these have been met , but a lot of them have not ."
there is no doubt that the regional funds contributed to the lisbon strategy .
"ten years on , we find ourselves shaken by the worst economic crisis we can remember ."
we have also learned that the contribution of regional funds is essential to meeting the objectives we are proposing .
"if we work together , we will be much stronger ."
"furthermore , in the disability sector , that difference will have to be taken into account in some way ."
ro europe 2020 must be a europe for its citizens and meet their needs .
this is the approach which I consider must form the basis of this strategy .
what sort of life will our citizens be able to live here ?
it is also important to make a distinction between cause and effect .
what really are the major issues we face today ?
i think one of them is certainly the ageing of our european societies .
"secondly , we already have high government deficits ."
"according to keynes's classical teaching , we have spent a lot of money in this crisis ."
now it is time to save .
"however , that also means of course that our currency will come under pressure ."
this is one of the main problems .
that has to be our starting point .
"however , there are a number of areas which I would be concerned about ."
"firstly , where does the six month rotating presidency fit into this ?"
"softly , softlywill not do anymore ."
we have to up our game .
"although the european parliament is subject to longer parliamentary procedures , it must not be condemned to inaction ."
"i think that this house , and we , its members , have three essential roles to play ."
"therefore , those who condemn this strategy do so because it is inflexible and inappropriate for the current situation ."
this is the problem with strategies .
"therefore , this 2020 strategy will be all the stronger if it can be adapted to prevailing circumstances ."
"european citizens woke up on monday , 10 may to a new europe ."
they had not caused this metamorphosis .
no one can assess its long term consequences at this stage .
this metamorphosis will not bear fruit if it is not rooted in democracy .
we were united in diversity now we must be united in adversity .
applause 
"as we discuss europe 2020 , we need to bear a situation of this type in mind ."
"we must make a commitment to universities and to research and development , because that is very clear now ."
"in order for use to reach 2020 , we will have to make it through 2010 in one piece ."
i would like to leave this worry behind now .
"economic , social and territorial cohesion represents a basic objective guaranteed by the treaties ."
we are conducting this debate in much too technocratic a way .
i grew up in a country where society was organised according to multiannual plans .
"this country , the german democratic republic , no longer exists ."
the disquiet with such procedures is very much in evidence .
a top down europe cannot work .
"now , that is a contradiction ."
we do not need more planned economy in the european union others have failed on that front before .
"if we did so , this debate could and would culminate in an overall strategy ."
we have said a great deal about the economic and social dimensions of the europe 2020 strategy .
"however , the european union today is much more than that ."
economic growth and the improvement of citizensliving conditions are unthinkable without such values based policies .
i should just like to emphasise two particular aspects .
"secondly , the coherence between the eu budget and this strategy ."
"elsewhere , it bemoans the fact that europe has an ageing population ."
this would certainly redress the population balance .
"pl the europe 2020 strategy cannot do as much as we are saying , here , today ."
it has also placed the focus on the role of territorial cohesion .
all these elements form the concrete bond for achieving territorial cohesion within the european union .
"ro the european union is facing an economic , financial and social crisis at present ."
"in the next 10 years , energy efficiency must be our top priority ."
there is a lesson to be learned from the greek crisis we need to act instead of reacting .
a coordinated and monitored budgetary policy and supervision and regulation of the financial market are indispensable .
the commission's recipe ofcompetition or crisisunfortunately remains unchanged .
"this has again sanctioned greater access to credit , which will again lead to speculation and unsupported growth ."
i would like to thank you for this opportunity and for all the messages you sent on this strategy .
i am prepared to continue a discussion on various details and even nuances concerning the europe 2020 strategy .
let me also be very clear about the objectives of the strategy .
it has a dual objective .
"first and foremost , it is an essential pillar of the response of the union to the current crisis ."
these are all very important elements .
"if europe does not restore its growth path , it will decline economically and will therefore also decline politically ."
"there can be no delay , considering the current economic situation and the crisis we are currently going through ."
"following the debate , I should like to express my thanks for your support for my report ."
the financial side has attracted sufficient attention and has been made a major priority .
we have also been able to discuss the medium term this afternoon and make several comments on this .
i wish to make two more comments one about governance .
it has been asked whose strategy this actually is .
participation in the lisbon strategy and the eu 2020 strategy should be made more exciting .
the whole thing is far too flat .
"therefore , I invite the commission to enter into a territorial pact with the regions , towns and cities ."
"my report concerns synergy between research , development , innovation , production and employment in europe ."
"madam president , ladies and gentlemen , two taboos have been broken in recent weeks ."
"firstly , the ecb can now monetise sovereign debts ."
"commissioners , we socialists are in favour of federalism ."
we are in favour of the coordination of budget policies .
this is the real threat which we are all facing at the moment .
i ask you to acknowledge this .
the item is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow thursday , 20 may 2010 ."
written statements rule 149 
the eu 2020 strategy's principles are vital for boosting the european economy's competitiveness .
structural reforms are the key to exiting the crisis we are in .
the causes of the crisis can only be eliminated through structural reforms .
we need to adopt a coordinated approach for using funds earmarked for innovation and regional development .
innovation must feature as part of regional development .
"innovation was an objective in the lisbon strategy but , unfortunately , it only remained a principle on paper ."
there were very wide variations in the progress made by member states and the overall objective was not achieved .
these various programmes provide finance to the tune of eur 86 billion for the period 2007 20the eu 2020 strategy also emphasises the interdependence of the various eu policies .
"for efficiency purposes , it is therefore essential to establish synergies between the various instruments ."
"this is a waste of eu money , which we cannot allow in a time of economic crisis ."
it is also essential to create incentives to investment in local research centres .
university business dialogue debate 
"furthermore , more entrepreneurial universities should be encouraged ."
"finally , the possibility of extending the good practices in this area that exist in so many countries ."
"i would especially like to thank mr schmitt , the outgoing member , who was rapporteur ."
the only question is what form it should take so that it is appropriate for both sides .
"better , more intensive cooperation encourages the exchange and dissemination of knowledge , both in business and in academia ."
"we need an open , flexible and dynamic dialogue between everyone involved ."
"for this reason , the european commission has launched the eu forum for university business dialogue ."
the forum offers all of its participants a platform for discussion and exchange of best practice and mutual learning .
"the european commission has a moderating role here , helping to remove barriers between these two worlds ."
these issues were also addressed in your report .
we very much appreciate the positive response to our communication which is reflected in your report today .
"we need more cooperation between stakeholders , based on mutual trust , respect and transparency ."
mr scurria referred earlier to mobility .
education and work are interwoven concepts .
"consequently , we need to pursue and strengthen dialogue between education systems and work providers ."
what sort of skills ?
"skills which the labour market needs , skills which will encourage innovative ideas and initiatives ."
we simply cannot afford to remain where we are .
these include the problems connected with intellectual property rights and innovation .
"economics , aesthetics and technology are in symbiosis with one another ."
the basis of an independent university system is adequate public funding .
that is why special attention needs to be paid to the administration systems of universities .
"madam president , I would like to thank the various rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation ."
"we are focusing on two things , in particular , and I will say a few words about these ."
"firstly , I would like to mention the modernisation of the curriculum ."
the second thing I would like to mention is mobility .
"at the same time , these students are better prepared to enter the labour market after their courses ."
practical placements should definitely be supported and promoted in europe .
research can also build bridges between universities and business .
it thus received absolutely unequivocal support from both parties .
"education is definitely our priority objective , but what sort of education ?"
the result of this is terrible unemployment figures for university graduates .
we can perhaps all agree that the solution is to develop links between businesses and universities .
"this has been pointed out repeatedly in various documents , including the leipzig charter on sustainable european cities ."
"the key issue , however , is how to achieve these links ."
the cofinancing of such work experience stints should become an integral component of university budgets .
"for businesses , this process means investing considerable effort and often considerable costs as well ."
we are all trying to understand the aspirations of our young people .
we are all concerned to provide young people with the best tools to help them find a job .
"the unemployment rate among young people is , in fact , unacceptable ."
we in the confederal group of the european united left nordic green left group do not think so .
that is the real key to lifelong mobility .
"in many eu countries , there is a growing lack of understanding among those in the university world ."
we in the gue / ngl group think that we should listen to them .
we are asking for a comprehensive report on the bologna process to be drafted .
"universities have shared information with each other for centuries , before the eu existed ."
so what of modernisation ?
do you look for the technological developments of the future ?
"if so , the scene today is just as promising ."
"universities elsewhere may be overtaking us , but they owe their beginnings to european universities ."
this tide of higher education often returns home .
but we do not need to politicise higher education through programmes such as the bologna and the erasmus processes .
we are living in a time of technical revolution .
what we need therefore is a revolution in research and teaching that will adapt to this situation .
"a young mind , a young brain with potential must be able to move freely ."
what you have presented here in your report is the exact opposite .
this report reflects outdated and failed thinking .
the entire report is uncreative and I would even dare to say useless .
it is clumsy phrases chained together across many pages to hide the fact that it lacks substance .
"in the austrian education system , you would be given a straight fail for this report ."
that also applies to mr repo and mrs vergiat .
"that is important and has also been stated in this report , mr ehrenhauser ."
"if you had read that , you would have realised this is something totally new ."
"therefore , what we need in this area is enhanced cooperation when it comes to universities and smes ."
"we need this cooperation at local , national and international level ."
we must support universities .
this report therefore strikes precisely the right chord .
"no , it is good ."
"i wish to thank mr pál schmitt , who is presently speaker of the hungarian parliament ."
i think that is really what we are talking about .
"we are talking about how the universities can maintain their academic excellence , yet prepare their students for work ."
"what we need is a real dialogue between employers , and employers at all levels , I think ."
"pt madam president , universities are the backbone of europe they are probably our best creation ."
what would you prefer ?
i leave you with that question .
i would now like to turn to the new partnership for modernising universities .
"in recent times , I have seen three great examples of that ."
this is why I believe that relations between the academic and business worlds need to be strengthened .
this will enable students to acquire the qualifications and develop the skills required by employers .
these partnerships must not be confined just to within individual member states .
"i , too , was in santiago de compostela with seán kelly where we visited the local university ."
the products successfully developed by the students at the university have an immediate practical use in the local economy .
this is a model which we need to promote and replicate across the eu .
pl this report is related to the important objectives of the europe 2020 strategy .
it is mainly the universities which will benefit from this money and carry out the research .
"how can clear schemes of public partnership be created , mainly as part of technology parks and enterprise incubators ?"
"how can we get involved with small and medium sized enterprises , and also get students involved with smes ?"
all these things are very important .
this is a good idea if we want to make the european economy dynamic and truly competitive .
"i would like , however , to point out several flaws in the commission's proposal ."
there are no research instruments for determining shortages of qualifications in the labour market .
applause 
"in order to attain these objectives , there must be greater investment in programmes such as erasmus ."
"by so doing , study beyond national borders with guaranteed academic recognition for students will be encouraged ."
universities can also contribute to training the smesstaff as part of the lifelong learning process .
the launch of a single european network of business and innovation centres is encouraging .
"i , too , wish to congratulate the rapporteur ."
ro we must ask ourselves what direction we want our education and research systems to go in .
i think that there is too little talk about skills in this context and too much about accumulating knowledge .
"de madam president , thank you very much for allowing me to speak again briefly ."
it would appear that my fellow member does not know the difference between training and education .
that is just what we need .
we therefore need people who are capable of asking searching questions about social processes .
"after all , business does not set itself such an objective ."
"business wants to train people and is entitled to do that , that is all well and good ."
let me make another brief comment we need scientific creativity and scientific curiosity .
no !
"pl research , scientific progress and educating students are the main roles of universities ."
"the priorities of the lisbon strategy are , put briefly , a knowledge based economy , innovation and scientific research ."
what ways are there to put into effect these principles and objectives ?
"thirdly , financing by businesses of student work experience placements and scientific research which they have ordered ."
fourthly mobility of staff is important in order to be able to make full use of educated people .
fifthly development of research and development centres in the area of the economy .
ro I partially agree with the rapporteur .
one of the main reasons for this is the lack of money .
"however , they are losing their researchers to the americans ."
"madam president , honourable members , thank you for a lively debate and for your many proposals and ideas ."
it will make its own decision in this regard it will not be forced into this by politicians .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow , thursday 20 may , at 12.00 ."
written statements rule 149 
education and training courses must be restructured to recognise the needs of the workforce and of the knowledge based economy .
"sadly , the research showed that many universities prepare specialists that the market already has in abundance ."
the input of universities alone is not enough business and government must also contribute to this process .
this is the best pretext for conducting dialogue between the two communities science and business .
we want a european union based on the central role of the individual .
all of this makes it more difficult to achieve the objectives set out by the eu .
too many companies believe universities are impervious to the needs of the workplace .
"the fact is , skills and knowledge are closely connected and completely interdependent ."
"in tomorrow's vote , we will be deciding on further solidarity contributions amounting to some eur 300 million ."
that has not been ruled out in the current draft of the report adopted by the committee .
the directive has been announced and I eagerly await it .
this is a sensitive and important subject .
i am also pleased that the report largely follows the commission's views and supports our proposal .
"unfortunately , I cannot go into all of them due to a lack of time ."
i am referring firstly to the continuation of financial support for measures in the energy sector .
there are huge potential energy savings to be made in bulgaria's existing coal fired power stations .
"following the decommissioning of the nuclear reactors , the focus of generating capacity in bulgaria has changed ."
i am relying on you to make constructive proposals and I am also looking forward to an exciting debate .
"finally , I would like to summarise the situation as follows ."
we also welcome the fact that we can continue to focus on providing support for safe dismantling measures .
"in addition , we are pleased that parliament believes that projects in the energy sector deserve our support ."
thank you for your attention .
bulgaria is a highly responsible country and will always endeavour to be a good and decent partner .
"consequently , I would ask you to make an effort to slow down ."
"otherwise , interpretation will be impossible ."
the european union also gave political guarantees for continuing to provide community support for the 2010 2013 period .
this issue will be a topic of discussion in the european union from now on .
"they are , in fact , taking all the necessary action in this respect ."
part of this cost is being compensated by the european union .
the first matter concerns the fate of the waste from the spent nuclear fuel and irradiated elements .
this issue was also mentioned today by commissioner oettinger .
the second matter concerns the use of the resources .
i believe that the european parliament will also monitor closely in future how these resources are used .
i think europe has a key role to play in this field .
"as a romanian mep , I have even more interest in this particular issue of the kozloduy nuclear plant ."
the kozloduy power plant is situated four kilometres from the river danube and 150 kilometres from bucharest .
"nevertheless , I think we should be intransigent regarding transparency in the use of european funds ."
"so far , the commission has been quite dissatisfied with the information on decommissioning received from bulgaria ."
the monitoring of the funds needs to be strict .
the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149 8 
"on behalf of the alde group . mr president , what can I say ?"
are we all nuts ?
or can anyone else see any reason in it ?
no further comment .
"nonetheless , the commission continues to indirectly fund the nuclear lobby ."
we are calling for an end to this bartering with the bulgarian government .
the president cut off the speaker 
"mr tremopoulos , your time is up ."
"however , mrs parvanova has raised the blue card to ask you a question ."
will you allow your fellow member to ask you a question ?
"mrs parvanova , can you please pose your question as briefly as possible ?"
"no , I am sorry , mrs parvanova ."
this does not comply with the rules of procedure .
the procedure involves posing a question to the speaker who is speaking at the time .
that question is therefore rejected as is the possibility of a reply .
their closure several years ahead of time was not necessary it was certainly not on safety grounds .
we are now paying for mistaken judgments within the european union institutions .
"a lot of money , of course , is involved in this decommissioning process ."
it is vitally important that these funds are properly and efficiently spent and accounted for .
i hope the commission can give us assurances on this .
it is also important to address the issue of compensating for and replacing lost energy capacity .
he should therefore not be so insistent in stating what bulgaria should and should not receive .
"we can now see some amendments tabled by the greens , which have one aim only ."
"in this case , the greens are adopting positions which are diametrically opposed to their views ."
there is also an amendment which states that kozloduy should serve as an example .
i wanted to demonstrate the fact that we are capable of listening .
"i must say to you , however , that your speech seemed entirely improper to me ."
"when shutting down part of the power plant , its staff will face new challenges ."
"however , it is just as important to consider people ."
"this goes against the principle of solidarity , which should govern energy policy ."
i wish to stress the importance we need to attach to the processing of radioactive waste .
we take note of your proposals and amendments .
i would like to thank you once again for your work and also mrs harms for this report .
we will be discussing this with mr oettinger in future .
thank you for your attention .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow , thursday 20 may , at 12.00 ."
written statements rule 149 
the commission had been saying for some time that the units in question were eligible for financial improvements .
"under the agreement , two units were closed in 2002 , and the other two in 200originally , the eu intended to provide financial support for the decommissioning process until 200we must prevent this from happening ."
the eu is dependent on energy imports for 53 % of its requirements .
implementing measures rule 88 
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting was closed at 21.20 
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 10.05 
europe 2020 motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
union for the mediterranean debate 
i will give our rapporteur the floor for four minutes .
"for us , it is also cultural and civilisation issues that are at stake ."
"in light of this , we have pointed out the approaches that we think are necessary today ."
we need to improve the economic and legal environment .
we need to improve south south regional integration .
"to conclude europe , in this crisis , needs to look far and wide ."
we must not sacrifice the long term to the short term .
we must assume our responsibilities .
europe needs the south .
"since 2004 , political contacts have increased in profile and intensity ."
trade has increased at double digit rates aided by a steady process of liberalisation and regulatory convergence .
this is what we have achieved in our bilateral relations .
"the mediterranean area is extremely dynamic , and the young generation are asking for more jobs and better opportunities ."
"mr president , without doubt , the barcelona summit is an uncertainty ."
"without doubt , the israeli palestinian conflict is echoing , but never mind ."
the region needs to increase its economic development and cultural exchange agreements .
it needs specific future projects that mobilise energies and involve a larger number of countries .
"finally , the agadir agreement should be extended in order to improve the development of south south exchanges ."
the re launch of the ufm is more urgent than ever before .
we need to bear this in mind for certain future developments .
one comment the union strategy and policy in terms of energy for northern europe are very well documented .
"we have , commissioner , a huge weakness in policy and strategy for energy for southern europe ."
the president cut off the speaker 
the report on the union for the mediterranean is important because it focuses on immediate and quantifiable targets .
"firstly , the political context ."
"it must make a positive contribution to resolving the conflict , insofar as it is able ."
"secondly , good projects must be set up and developed in a professional and intelligent manner ."
"thirdly , adequate resources and financial commitments must be found ."
that will help us raise the level of mutual understanding and interconnection .
we need to remember this resolution and parliament's position .
our current migration policy is no longer acceptable .
we must be faithful to our project and to our values .
our children will thank us for it and we will be the proud representatives of our peoples .
"until they are resolved , these conflicts represent a real barrier ."
a daily battle is waged on the borders of these countries .
the president cut off the speaker 
"according to its constitution , syria is officially a popular democratic and socialist oriented unitary state ."
"in practice , however , syria is a dictatorship ."
"morocco occupies western sahara and in tunisia , human rights are regularly flouted ."
are these countries with whom we wish to have more cultural exchange ?
the outcome of this will be yet more islam in europe .
"we cannot allow europe to become eurabia not now , not ever !"
"before this dream turns into a nightmare , we must call a halt to this process ."
"apart from costing the european taxpayer several billions , these projects have come to nothing ."
stop wasting taxpayersmoney and stop dreaming !
"all due respect to mr albertini , however , for taking a brave position ."
he has the support of my group .
this is an essential feature of every democratically elected assembly .
"today , over half of the population from morocco to turkey is under 18 years old ."
the mediterranean is therefore destined to change rapidly .
el I should like to start by thanking mr peillon for the work he has done .
we need to become more pro active on the fundamental issues that concern us .
"instead of being inhabited by people , it is inhabited by rats , lizards and snakes ."
"the houses of the people , together with their memories , have been eroded ."
"all that is left are the dreams of thousands of people , many of whom died as refugees ."
the least we can do for the living is to return the town of famagusta to its inhabitants .
the president cut off the speaker 
where this money would come from is not mentioned the reality is not allowed to intrude on fantasy .
this report is truly bonkers !
it is also possible that hamas is profiting from this aid .
the political aspect is blocked .
we are not even sure if the planned summit in barcelona in june will actually take place .
there are social and economic differences between mediterranean countries .
the challenge is even greater as a result of the economic crisis .
"it is to achieve real rapprochement between the union and mediterranean countries through growth , cooperation and trade ."
"energy security , combating climate change and the maritime environment are also areas in which close cooperation is required ."
"the union for the mediterranean is not , of course , the framework for addressing regional conflicts ."
thank you for your understanding .
that is the acid test .
some of these disparities are due to serious deficiencies in our neighbouring states .
"in order to achieve this , our neighbours , too , must implement reforms ."
standing still cannot be an option .
i would like briefly to raise three further points .
let me just apologise for the council .
i think that the council should be present for the majority of the plenary part session .
"thank you , I will do that ."
i was simply attempting to explain what the council said .
i will do that .
thank you very much .
the barcelona summit can put us into the position where we can assume leadership in the mediterranean .
"colleagues , please keep to your time ."
"it is 10.57 , and at 12.00 we have the votes ."
i am convinced that growth of the union can reinforce the unity of europe .
i am somewhat concerned by mr baudis's scepticism regarding the possibility of this summit being postponed .
the durability and credibility of the union for the mediterranean depend on its ability to operate .
one of these opportunities is the approach to gender equality in society .
it is an area regarded with some sensitivity in this region .
"in particular , regarding this last point , smes and business development are already one of the strategic sectors ."
"since then , it appears to have lost some of its lustre ."
this follows almost two decades of the development of the barcelona process and its political apparatus .
this is principally because of the problems relating to belarusparticipation .
this has been controversial and discussed this morning in the enlarged bureau .
"however , the mediterranean region is also a bridge for almost unrestricted immigration into the eu ."
this is the only way in which we can stem the tide of refugees at its starting point .
let us reassert these words .
"member of the commission . mr president , it was indeed a good and inspiring discussion ."
"i agree with those who say that we lost a lot of time , particularly in building a secretariat ."
i shall come to that in a second .
i shall make five very short remarks .
the first is that I should like to express my appreciation of the spanish presidency .
we worked very hard with the spanish presidency in recent months .
"so far , it is funded only by the commission ."
we will be sending one expert to make sure that there is compatibility between the project and eu policy .
my last remark is that we are determined to work with the european parliament .
"mr president , commissioner , I would like to make three brief comments ."
you cannot be everything to everybody and confusion of the mind is not a recipe for efficiency .
"thirdly , I too am sorry that the council is not here ."
"be that as it may , parliament will have assumed its responsibilities ."
it is this same spirit that we wanted to develop with the mediterranean in this report .
we also need to ensure that we do not turn in on ourselves .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 12.00 .
written statements rule 149 
"however , the political drive needed to get the euro mediterranean strategy off the ground has been lacking ."
"however , the ufm does , nonetheless , face certain political tensions ."
the meeting in barcelona will mark our commitment to the mediterranean .
"it also includes areas such as disaster control , energy and the environment ."
the mediterranean regions are hard hit by water shortages and drought .
"in 2007 , one third of europeans lived in regions where water was in short supply ."
the need for an eu strategy for the south caucasus debate 
"they are also a serious impediment to democratisation , political stability and social and economic development ."
this is particularly valid for the nagorno karabakh conflict where the union has been practically absent .
the union is the international mediator that is accepted by both sides and whose presence does not raise controversies .
so there is a good future if we try to do it all together .
the former continues to be one of the european union's top priorities for its external relations .
let me underline two very important milestones along this road .
"last week , the commission published its third annual progress report for the south caucasus countries ."
"this time , we have chosen a five year assessment for the european neighbourhood policy package ."
"the commission is already preparing for such negotiations , which are expected to start within the next few months ."
the stability and security of the south caucasus have a direct impact on europe .
"therefore , the european union shares the responsibility for supporting the peaceful resolution of conflict and confidence building ."
"the south caucasus matters to the european union , not least due to its energy and transport links ."
the new association agreements will expand the trade provisions under the partnership and cooperation agreements .
the strategy is vitally important for ensuring a consistent good neighbour policy .
trade barriers must be lifted and commercial and economic ties between the eu and the south caucasus strengthened .
"in this respect , I call on the commission to show greater commitment to achieving these goals ."
this is a very important subject .
this demonstrates the attitude of many politicians and people in positions of responsibility in this region .
"the region is not only important for europe but also , of course , for its neighbours ."
this would lay the foundations for an improved relationship between armenia and turkey .
i think that the content of this report could form the beginnings of a union of this kind .
i think that the approach to adopt is to expand the commercial partnership .
"however , to achieve this , democratic will is required from both us and the governments in the region ."
i am referring to individual rights and freedoms .
"if you have a real or assumed external enemy , things are relatively simple ."
all of this is necessary in order for us to make genuine progress in bringing peace to this region .
all of these things remain relevant .
the freedom of the media is a problem in all the countries .
the regional dimension and cross border cooperation are important .
"therefore , we support the commission in its ongoing joint activities in this area ."
"we cannot , in terms of eu russia relations , simply pretend that this did not happen ."
armenia has now made courageous efforts to resolve this long standing impasse over nagorno karabakh .
"it has also sought to normalise relations with turkey , a move which should stabilise the south caucasus ."
if only turkey itself would respond in a similarly constructive manner without preconditions .
so there is enlightened self interest for turkey to move on this issue .
i would like to highlight very briefly three very specific elements .
this would give the business environment and investors a very good prospect .
perhaps we have to work on our geopolitical identity to define it better .
what are our goals in the south caucasus ?
one has to recognise the specificity of the region within the eastern partnership and approach that specificity as such .
one has also to recognise the specificity of each country within the region and to address it properly .
"this would perhaps help us to promote solutions for the local , so calledfrozenconflicts ."
"therefore , a package deal should perhaps be considered ."
we have great hopes for this region as we build a free and democratic europe .
i am convinced these agreements will be a stimulus for the region to continue efforts at introducing democratic standards .
the example of georgia shows that such reforms have already brought results .
"against this background , I would like to say that the south caucasus is faced with two alternatives ."
"in the kirilov report , we are choosing the second of these two options ."
"therefore , it is in the interests of all three countries to come together ."
i support armenia in its efforts to gain recognition of the genocide carried out by the ottoman empire .
"however , armenia would be much more credible if it finally withdrew its troops from azerbaijan ."
we urgently need a peaceful solution in nagorno karabakh and in the occupied azerbaijani areas .
"in the 21st century , displacement must not continue to be used as a political tool ."
people should not be attempting to maintain the process of displacement .
we need a great deal more sensitivity and much more action in this area .
"clearly , that also depends on the behaviour of neighbouring countries ."
"in particular , we ought to increase the number of students , teachers and researchers participating in mobility programmes ."
that is the common interest we all share .
"frankly speaking , it is a step which certainly is overdue ."
"nonetheless , it is a step in the right direction ."
"pl armenia , azerbaijan and georgia are undoubtedly european states , they are undoubtedly european nations ."
we cannot accept the archaic principle of regions and spheres of influence .
i would like to devote a few seconds to the question of georgian territorial integrity .
it is very good that the union has declared its support in this matter .
we must remember this .
"unfortunately , some parts of the ceasefire agreements of 12 august and 8 september 2008 have not been implemented ."
a second matter is that of visas .
"this should , without doubt , also apply to georgia , armenia and azerbaijan ."
trade is one of the key instruments available to the eu for achieving these objectives .
guaranteeing energy security is a common concern for the european union and the south caucasus region .
it is very good that we do talk about them .
"in this debate , we have very often forgotten that georgia has just finished fighting a war ."
we are considering what to do about this .
thank you .
the european union must definitely make a more active commitment in the future settlement of the nagorno karabakh conflict .
the treaty of lisbon provides the european union with a framework to become a real global player .
"ladies and gentlemen , there are eight requests to speak under thecatch the eyeprocedure ."
there is not time for everybody because we must proceed to the vote .
"i am , therefore , going to allow only six members to speak ."
pl the report on the south caucasus is a good report .
"as the european union , we can help these countries here ."
i would like to stress that one of the main problems is the unresolved matter of refugees .
mr posselt spoke about this .
"i think it is really disgraceful that in this day and age , this problem cannot be solved ."
thank you very much .
the area motivates perfectly the general recommendations of the eu security strategy .
that requires our total attention and determination to act .
for that we need a strategy .
"mr president , I congratulate mr kirilov and mr kazak on their work ."
i wish to emphasise two points .
the first one concerns the issue of democracy .
bernd posselt was saying earlier that the countries in this region need to cooperate .
"if this is going to happen , the eu will have something to gain ."
the second point naturally concerns the energy issue .
"in this regard , the keyword is transparency"
this will give the caucasus a key role .
this region is not only the world's largest transit point for the trade in gas and oil .
"in addition to the oil and gas contracts , turkey is attempting to conclude a stability and cooperation pact ."
"as the example of cyprus shows , ankara does not pull its punches ."
i would like to make three very short remarks .
i just want to say one thing .
we should apply the same principles .
i heard some criticism from some colleagues .
we should know that the universal application of principles is the best basis to start and build relationships .
"otherwise , we risk intervening again when it is already too late ."
we should not wait for it to happen again .
the big lesson europe has learnt is the lesson of integration .
this is the only sustainable way of reconciliation with the past and investment in a better future .
the debate is closed .
we will now proceed to the vote .
written statements rule 149 
romania is involved in specific projects aimed at developing the southern corridor .
"on this point , representatives of my country , georgia and azerbaijan signed the agri agreement ."
"in 2007 , both the eu and nato were clearly left unprepared to face the new situation ."
"first of all , this means strengthening the presence of the eu in the region ."
we support fully the constructive mission of our special representative peter semneby .
"however , we cannot limit ourselves to monitoring missions ."
such a situation is both intolerable and humiliating .
we can continue cooperation with the russian authorities only on condition that they fully honour their own commitments .
"the case concerns the prolonging of the lease of the sevastopol naval base up to 20why is the fleet there , then to entertain kids and the elderly in crimea ?"
announcement by the president
"first of all , I would like to tell you about the difficult situation in poland ."
applause 
"we have our own european union solidarity fund , which is so important in this kind of natural disaster ."
amendment of the agenda
"ladies and gentlemen , this morning , a meeting of the conference of presidents was held ."
we finished the conference 10 minutes ago .
we discussed very thoroughly the questions of organising the vote on the resolutions on the europe 2020 strategy .
"there is a fear that there may not be such a majority , today ."
this is what we need .
this is in accordance with rule 140 of our rules of procedure .
"mr president , thank you for your statement ."
we therefore have the same thoughts for our hungarian fellow citizens as for our polish fellow citizens .
applause 
i endorse your presentation .
"in a crisis situation , democratic forces must join together ."
"at lunchtime yesterday , during discussions in our respective groups , we realised that time was short ."
mr schulz would like to speak against the proposal .
"mr president , at the beginning of his speech , mr daul referred to the difficult situation in hungary ."
many countries are currently experiencing problems .
"for example , the people of slovakia have been hard hit by flooding ."
i have nothing to add about procedural matters .
what has happened in the last few days does not relate to procedure but to content .
"however , one thing is completely clear ."
there are several different solutions .
we cannot bring ourselves to the point of exhaustion in the search for a consensus .
now is the time to take up firm positions .
you can take up firm positions and we will do the same .
"we have attempted to find a consensual solution , but this did not work ."
"therefore , we should now try to obtain a majority for one position or the other ."
"therefore , mr president , I am of the opinion that we should vote today ."
parliament agreed to the request 
the czech republic is also part of the european union .
"thank you , too , mr březina , for drawing attention to this ."
we have disastrous floods .
thank you very much .
delivering a single market to consumers and citizens 
university business dialogue a new partnership for the modernisation of europe's universities 
before the vote 
there are no problems with this report .
does anyone wish to object ?
"no one has objected , so we can vote ."
long term sustainability of public finances for a recovering economy 
after the vote 
applause 
i therefore ask that you withdraw my signature .
applause 
"mr hoang ngoc , your statement will be noted in the minutes ."
contribution of the cohesion policy to the achievement of lisbon and the eu2020 objectives 
i was voting against it .
union for the mediterranean 
the need for an eu strategy for the south caucasus 
that concludes voting time .
voting time
the next item is voting time .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
paragraph 46 rightly states that access to finance is their greatest problem .
"sk closer dialogue between universities and businesses will , in my opinion , contribute to economic growth ."
i am alarmed at the increasing unemployment among young people .
"for the reasons mentioned , I support the proposed report ."
the speaker was interrupted 
staggering !
the aim of the rapporteur and of the 250 other members is to destroy the economy .
"obviously , this is a tough message and will not go down well with the voters ."
"however , if we fail to do this , the whole of europe will go bankrupt !"
"fortunately , the amendments have not been adopted ."
"mr president , I welcome this report on public finances ."
it is a vast improvement on the first draft .
high debt and deficit levels are a grave concern to the uk and across many member states .
"we must wean ourselves off fiscal stimuli and quantitative easing , and these should not be the accepted norm ."
"finally , we cannot hide from our issue of ever ageing populations ."
pension schemes must be transparent and taken into account when looking at public debt .
there are some issues that I was wary of in this report .
"migration , for example , needs to be handled sensitively ."
it can meet certain gaps in the labour force but must be controlled and take into account local factors .
how detached from the real world can the european parliament actually get ?
"our cities are already groaning under the problems of mass , uncontrolled immigration ."
how can that be ?
"their problems will become even more severe , resulting in yet more immigration ."
there is no doubt that a stable mediterranean is a huge prize for the wider europe .
"following the visit , I wrote an article calling for a mediterranean community ."
why am I mentioning this ?
"after the eastern partnership , it is the european union's most important foreign policy tool ."
we must ensure that this is not the case in future .
written explanations of vote
in writing . I voted for this report which addresses the current shortcomings of the internal market .
the economic and financial crisis has substantially damaged the single market integration process .
"for this reason , the reality of the internal market is not static but dynamic ."
"however , the economic crisis has undoubtedly affected public and consumer confidence in the single market ."
these imperatives are likely to provide the single market with a competitive advantage against other major world economies .
"nothing has protected us , least of all the europe of brussels ."
"these are the consequences of establishing a single market that has remained incomplete since 199today , it is a crisis factor in itself ."
the common european market is an important achievement of european union integration .
it gives many possibilities to our citizens as well as to small and medium sized enterprises .
the market is not always favourable to them .
in writing . this report could not have come at a more critical moment .
"in the long term , this would have detrimental effects on europe's economy ."
that is why I voted as I did .
the report is moving in the wrong direction .
"for these reasons , I have voted against this report ."
i voted in favour of the grech report on delivering a single market to consumers and citizens .
we must not forget the citizen and consumer in our recovery strategy .
"that said , it does contain both good and bad proposals , and I am therefore abstaining ."
i support this report on a more active partnership between universities and businesses .
this own initiative report contains truly positive ideas for the future of our universities .
i therefore voted in favour of the report .
"today , knowledge is a greater priority than ever ."
they should enjoy autonomy so that they are able to make their essential contribution to europe's development .
information and communications technologies are a key instrument in this respect .
"in this context , creating quality partnerships in higher education and business is of the utmost importance ."
the report on university business dialogue adopts a position which we do not see as the way to modernise education .
"we must take the looming threats to free , public and democratic access to education very seriously ."
"it is a neoliberal approach , to which we are opposed ."
i endorsed the schmitt report on university business dialogue a new partnership for the modernisation of europe's universities .
i warmly congratulate mr schmitt on his election to the hungarian parliament and on his being elected speaker .
i wish him all the best .
the eu currently finds itself in a very schizophrenic situation .
this is the root of all the misunderstanding .
"the new , additional forms of so called lifelong learning are , of course , also desirable ."
university business dialogue is essential for the high quality training to which the eu's young people aspire .
that is why I voted as I did .
"in its communication , the commission refers to universities and colleges being given real autonomy ."
there are many examples of very fruitful cooperation between educational institutions and business .
probably no eu member state would doubt that cooperation between education and business is essential .
higher education throughout europe faces a huge challenge .
"preservation of this system , which is full of inequalities , is a mistake we cannot accept ."
"however , the market needs quality , not quantity ."
i voted for the schmitt report to encourage cooperation between universities and companies .
i voted for the report on the university business dialogue a new partnership for the modernisation of european universities .
the european union protects its citizens .
"consequently , ukip members have voted against the extra funding asked for in this report ."
the proposal on which we are voting fits into this framework .
the protection and promotion of human and environmental health are priority objectives in european development policy .
i do support this as further assistance will be necessary to ensure the safe decommissioning of the reactors .
"parliament , however , rejected financing by these funds for polluting lignite power plants ."
this led me to vote against the amended proposal .
"however , I abstained on the legislative resolution to allow for decommissioning funding by the eu ."
"this is a step towards the gradual phasing out of nuclear power , which we advocate ."
"this method cannot provide a long term solution , given the risks it poses to our ecosystem ."
has commissioner oettinger not already committed himself to financing that project ?
"the financial assistance adopted here is , therefore , within this framework ."
that is why I voted as I did .
"to this end , it will receive approximately eur 860 million in assistance ."
"bulgaria did not destroy its energy supply , but it affects neighbouring countries , since they stop receiving electricity ."
the closure of four reactors means a loss of 1 700 mw of energy for bulgaria .
i am not thinking specifically of kozloduy here .
"however , the resale of atomic waste must be stopped ."
the decommissioning of ignalina nuclear power plant in 2009 has had a severe impact on lithuania .
"however , it would be foolish on our part to give up nuclear power plants entirely ."
the van nistelrooij report contains useful recommendations on improving the use of all of these loans .
there is undeniable potential here for financing and growth for our territories .
"finally , these funds should all be involved in the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy ."
"having noted the quality of the report , I supported it with my vote ."
"a consistent policy is required to do this , which is well targeted and funded appropriately ."
"however , I think that consideration must be given to the regionsvarying social and economic features ."
"however , they can be supported by means of subsidy programmes ."
the long term sustainability of our public finances is fundamental today to the credibility of european economic and fiscal policy .
the greek crisis has proven that .
"faced with the markets and credit rating agencies , the public powers need to demonstrate that they are responsible ."
this is also a necessity imposed by the demographic reality of today and the coming years .
our boat is taking on water .
"even if it is not yet sinking , it is high time we started bailing ."
"i voted against this text , which is an insult to the citizens of europe ."
they propose transforming the stability pact into a social regression pact .
"today , the right is presenting the invoice to the citizens ."
"however , the causes of these financial aberrations are not the causes identified by the rapporteur ."
the inadequacy of the revision to the stability and growth pact has also become clear .
this is a situation which undermines productivity and economic competitiveness .
tax fairness and efficient government public spending are essential to the process of economic recovery and social cohesion .
"however , I disagree with the proposed solutions ."
"they have won on all fronts , increasing their own profits even further ."
never mind the consequences for the real economy and the people .
budgetary policy is not an end in itself it is a tool which responds to political objectives .
its positive proposals relate to migration policies .
"after that , however , an inverse logic is introduced in specific proposals ."
i am voting against this report .
"on the other hand , I do not think that europe should promote the award of citizenship ."
we certainly cannot achieve better financial market regulation by introducing a new tax .
"i applaud the decision of the rapporteur , hoang ngoc , to withdraw his name from it ."
let us not bring the citizens of europe to their knees .
"however , they make a period of sacrifice foreseeable , which will affect all europeans ."
these sacrifices must be distributed in a fair and balanced way .
most lithuanians understand that the need for painful victims and severe measures will not disappear overnight .
the long term sustainability of public finances is essential to achieve stability and growth .
the solution is to reduce the budget deficit .
financial stability is important for the recovery of the lithuanian and european economies .
"now more than ever , we need smooth coordination of markets and hedge funds and better supervision ."
we also have to continue to seriously implement our international commitments .
"after all , simplicity is one of the keys to efficiency ."
"as I have said , this is an ambitious and daring strategy ."
this is crucial for economic development and growth in the different regions .
i have no doubt that small and medium sized enterprises have a crucial role in the success of building europe .
"very specifically liberalisations , privatisations , and making employment laws less regulated and more flexible ."
"these options , instruments and objectives have now been taken up again by the 2020 strategy ."
there are problems with subsidy policy throughout the eu .
in writing . it is a pity our alternative resolution on cohesion policy and eu2020 was rejected .
its aim was to correct the extensive earmarking of cohesion policy carried out by the first barroso commission .
the rapporteur had achieved a balance between these two aspects .
we should be grateful to him for having promoted the independence of cohesion policy .
we supported his approach .
we in the group of the greens / european free alliance very much regret that .
"unfortunately , it did not receive a majority of the votes ."
"this was not surprising , given the vote in the committee ."
"in my opinion , three political points should be considered at that time "
in writing . we oppose the union for the mediterranean .
this would facilitate mass immigration from impoverished countries in north africa .
the swedish conservatives have today voted against report on the union for the mediterranean .
in writing . I supported this report on the union for the mediterranean ufm .
"historically , the mediterranean sea united rather than divided ."
that is why a break with this path of progressively liberalising international trade is needed .
"however , its virtue ends there ."
i am voting against this report .
i believe that the interests of european and mediterranean citizens should always take precedence over those of the financiers .
the role of elected representatives is to strive for the common good .
it is unfortunate that those who drafted this text did not make that their priority .
we voted in favour of the report as a whole adopted by a large majority .
i voted for the resolution on theneed for an eu strategy for the south caucasus.
the south caucasus is strategically important to the european union .
"we can use trade policy to promote respect for human rights , energy security , democracy and good governance ."
"there has been a conflict of interests in these places between russia , iran and turkey throughout this period ."
now the eu has also discovered this region .
"in fact , I bow down deeply before her ."
"for the aforementioned reasons , the gue / ngl group will abstain from the final vote on the resolution ."
this is completely incomprehensible and should be condemned .
"for these reasons , I have voted against the kirilov report ."
firmly setting out this stance will help avoid establishing a similar precedent in future .
"the final vote , which was positive , has been very easy for us ."
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
council position at first reading see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
religious freedom in pakistan
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on religious freedom in pakistan .
"nevertheless , much needs to be done along the road towards genuine religious freedom in pakistan ."
"we know also that women in pakistan face domestic abuse , including physical and psychological abuse ."
"much , therefore , remains to be done ."
we greatly value his work and the reforms that the government has made .
it is a significant act of peace whose impact will radiate far and wide .
"if success is achieved in this , it will be worthy of a peace prize ."
a recent requirement now means that a note about religious identity also has to be included in passports .
the law on the crime of blasphemy and the death penalty it carries also affect religious minorities in particular .
recent events in pakistan have shown that the country is ready for profound changes to its system .
"madam president , freedom of religion is not guaranteed in pakistan ."
"in 2009 , an increase in violent attacks against religious minorities has been observed , and that includes murders ."
"in addition , nearly 80 % of people from minority groups live below the poverty line ."
"violence against women continues to increase rapes , suicides , acid attacks and women being burned ."
independent organisations representing working people and the poor are critical .
this is the future direction that pakistan needs to take .
pakistan is an islamic country and we must respect that .
both countries have had minorities from the beginning and both have developed a great tradition of tolerance .
"this respect for all religious minorities and , in particular , for christians , must be reinforced ."
i believe that we can put the emphasis on this .
"of course , freedom of religion is important , but freedom from religion is also important ."
the pakistani telecom authority instructed all internet providers to block the website .
the measure was taken to prevent people from learning about alleged insulting remarks on islam or the prophet mohammed .
criminalising free speech is not an effective way of allowing pakistani society to deal with diversity .
"threats to journalists , cartoonists and artists are becoming more common and they challenge our liberal , democratic societies ."
"self censorship is becoming more common and politicians , cartoonists and journalists now need protection against death threats ."
it is the best remedy against extremism .
"the 2008 elections restored democracy and civilian government in pakistan , although that democracy is not completely stable ."
"this takes the form of habitual persecution , cold blooded murder , discrimination and harassment at all levels of society ."
"such improvements have not been forthcoming , and the persecution continues ."
"these are empty words these days , especially for the estimated 15 million christians living in pakistan ."
"sadly enough , the pakistani legal system condones the precarious position of the country's indigenous christians ."
the blasphemy laws pose even more danger to pakistani christians .
"madam president , ladies and gentlemen , that has created an almost unbearable atmosphere of fear and uncertainty ."
hundreds of pakistani christians vegetate in prison for years without access to any legal process .
pl there is an american saying that there are no free lunches .
let us want something !
"hu if we examine the pakistani situation , we are faced with two incontrovertible facts ."
"first , pakistan is a key strategic player in the fight against terrorism ."
we must do everything possible to ensure that the safety of european citizens is not in danger .
only then can we effectively demand that our partners make similar advances or steps on the path towards them .
we in the european parliament are fighting specifically for human rights throughout the world .
"for me , religious freedom is a central concept of our human rights policy ."
anyone who allows violent attacks on christians to take place must receive a response from the civilised world .
we now move to the catch the eye part of the debate .
i have had far more requests than we can accommodate .
we are only meant to have two minutes .
i am going to take four speakers .
"among other questions , that of the ahmadis has also been raised ."
i was convinced that he was trying to establish mutual understanding among religious groups .
this surely cannot be an ideal way to promote mutual understanding between religious groups .
the united states of america has been a lot more active than the european union in this matter .
"nevertheless , something must be done ."
thank you very much .
"unfortunately , benazir bhutto was assassinated a few weeks prior to the elections ."
"the pakistan people's party , which she headed , won these elections ."
the pakistani government's commitment to give seats to minorities in the senate is to be commended .
pakistan's constitution recognises freedom of religion and provides that the state will protect the rights of minorities .
"in addition , an independent national commission of human rights is being set up ."
"this is a step in the right direction , provided that these instruments are implemented effectively ."
"during these discussions , the eu has always insisted on respect for individual rights and minority rights ."
"on that occasion , the issue of minorities in pakistan was raised ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
written statements rule 149 
"in writing . reportedly , pakistan has the harshest blasphemy laws in the world ."
the exercise of the rights to free expression and religion can result in imprisonment and death .
these efforts must be encouraged .
"however , many more steps need to be taken to improve the situation of religious minorities ."
"apart from the legal aspect , it is important for the government to adopt decisive measures to prevent violence ."
the promotion of tolerance is the key to protecting religious minorities in pakistan .
european civilisation as we know it today would not be possible without religious freedom .
the search for something which goes beyond the individual must go hand in hand with toleration .
the path to god and also the path from god is different and unique for each individual .
"if nothing else , we have learned this during the two thousand years of christianity in europe ."
"this experience has been long and painful , purchased with the lives of millions of innocent people ."
we europeans therefore have the right to tell others not to take that path .
situation in thailand
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on thailand .
around 80 people have already lost their lives and nearly 2 000 have been injured .
democracy is threatened and the country finds itself in a government declared state of emergency .
the state of emergency has resulted in censorship .
"media sources such as tv , radio and internet have been blocked ."
censorship needs to end and freedom of the media and expression need to be restored .
these values are important for the european parliament in their valuable relationship with thailand .
the train of events has passed very quickly over recent days and hours .
let us hope that a new spiral of violence can be avoided .
"however , to ensure this happens , we need moderation because democracy cannot prevail through violence ."
i think that the government will have to implement the roadmap which it presented on 3 may .
"madam president , thered shirtdemonstrations have been suppressed with bloodshed ."
"firstly , any citizen can legitimately aspire to free and fair elections ."
"that is an undeniable right , and one that should be granted to all thai people ."
"this option was proposed at one point by prime minister vejjajiva , then rejected by thered shirts."
we must now return to it .
it is time to stop the violence that has become widespread across the whole country .
the current turmoil runs the risk of dividing the country .
"of course , these are very simple words , and perhaps rather naive in relation to modern day violence ."
part of the thai population is severely disadvantaged and socially excluded .
these people are very critical of their unfair treatment and lack of rights .
they are fighting against their comparatively low standard of living .
what were thered shirtsdemanding ?
"the prime minister's resignation , the dissolution of parliament , early elections in short , democracy ."
this is the context in which we have prepared the resolution before us today .
"yesterday , the army intervened , killing several people including an italian journalist ."
"in fact , it is the matter of the succession of the king that is being called into question ."
he has remained strangely silent .
the resolution does not even condemn the violence .
we will not vote in favour of it .
"the thai people have the right to democracy , and everything must be done to avoid another military coup ."
"following heavy military intervention , the leaders of the demonstrators have surrendered ."
"however , the situation in bangkok is continuing to escalate ."
i have received phone calls about it both yesterday and today .
"until now , some areas of the capital were not affected by the conflict , but that has changed ."
the situation in the north east is also chaotic .
the dramatic images convey one clear message .
the position of the group of the european people's party christian democrats is clear .
there is no alternative to objective discussions .
all the incidents must be investigated by an independent commission .
we very much welcome the plan to bring the parliamentary elections forward .
"mr tajani , the eu must take an active role and act as mediator ."
we have the diplomatic means to break the spiral of violence and start the process of constructive dialogue .
"mr tajani , we must act , because thailand is being shaken to its foundations ."
the situation is all the more alarming as there are no real prospects of resolving the internal conflict .
there is the risk of these street clashes degenerating into civil war .
"among the dead , there are medical doctors and children ."
sk the demonstrations in thailand have unfortunately been going on for several weeks now .
i would therefore like to express my sympathy with those who have lost family members .
the thai government in particular must take responsibility for providing a calm and peaceful solution to this conflict .
"madam president , honourable members , thailand is going through a tragic phase in its political history ."
"in turn , the government is struggling to implement the solutions that the current circumstances demand ."
there is persistent uncertainty over the future of the country .
"no political or ideological crisis can justify this fact , nor the armed confrontation ."
these rights are threatened by the disproportionate use of force .
"to prevent the situation deteriorating any further , it is crucial that negotiations should resume ."
the commission has taken note of the roadmap put forward by prime minister abhisit vejjajiva .
thailand will not emerge from the current crisis unless it deals with its major structural problems .
this is an indispensable step towards national reconciliation .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
written statements rule 149 
thailand is going through a very serious period in its history .
"the king is a highly respected figure in the country , but does not seem able to reduce tensions ."
continued uncertainties over his succession suggest that this instability will persist .
the violence must stop .
this injustice must stop .
the eu should use its good economic and political relations with thailand in order to bring about this solution .
burma
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on burma .
burma is going to hold an election this year for the first time in 30 years .
"unfortunately , the election laws published do not provide for fair and free elections ."
the opposition is not involved in the process and many of the opposition leaders are still under house arrest .
"many political activists are in prison , and the opposition party has decided to boycott the elections completely ."
i hope parliament will do the same .
the situation in burma forces us to turn our attention to this country repeatedly .
this is an obvious attempt to keep the opposition out of the elections .
"in such conditions , even the very expressionelectionsdoes not correspond to reality ."
"similarly , other international human rights organisations have been involved with the situation there ."
"although improvements have been made in individual cases , the human rights situation in burma remains extremely poor ."
"since then , the national league for democracy has been banned ."
we welcome the tone of this resolution calling for increased economic sanctions .
we also regret the reduction in humanitarian aid for refugees .
"however , some major economic groups in europe have powerful interests in that country ."
the human rights situation in burma is giving particular cause for concern .
"the authorities have announced the organisation of elections during this year for the first time since 19however , they will be run based on an undemocratic framework ."
the international community must act against the oppressors of the burmese people .
the eu can do much more than just renewing sanctions on the regime .
it should use all means to strengthen civil society and assist those who resist oppression in burma .
"on behalf of the alde group . madam president , burma will hold so called elections this year ."
asian countries are encouraged to do the same and to use their economic leverage in the process .
self isolation impacts the population on many levels such as through news media that cannot operate freely in the country .
"until then , restrictive measures provided for in the eu decision will have to be enforced ."
"this also includes the situation of aung san suu kyi , who is in prison ."
this is something that we cannot remain silent on .
this is important also in the sense that has been mentioned by ana gomes .
there is also good news there .
we have to establish a clear policy of support for these people .
i have been there many times .
"fi madam president , burma is holding its first parliamentary elections for 20 years ."
buddhist monks have long been the target of a special kind of persecution .
the international community needs to make an effort to do something .
it is regrettable that the commission has cut funding for refugee camps on the border between thailand and burma .
"humanitarian aid is needed in abundance , and there must be international efforts made to get it there ."
it is also most important that burma embarks on a dialogue between political and ethnic groups .
thirty one political parties have come forward so far to stand for election .
civil society has been active .
it accepts the decision of ethnic groups as to whether or not they will vote .
we are also still very concerned about the human rights situation .
"the report by mr quintana , the united nations special rapporteur , is very clear ."
"many political prisoners have still not been released , despite appeals from the international community ."
fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are still not respected .
"socio economic conditions are difficult for most of the population , especially in areas inhabited by ethnic groups ."
how can we really help ?
the european union's statements are evidence of our critical view and our willingness to contribute to a solution .
"our approach includes development aid in fact , the eu is one of the most generous donors ."
the conditions needed for them to make a return to their countries do not exist .
"in addition , the commission has been in contact with the thai authorities ."
"it should be remembered that there are also aid programmes focusing on education , agriculture and food security ."
"in addition , the european commission humanitarian aid programmes provide aid in the area of water and food security ."
there is also aid aimed at restoring socio economic conditions in burma .
"in conclusion , I can confirm that we will redouble our efforts to promote our values ."
"de madam president , you are undoubtedly a competent vice president and you are also highly influential ."
i very much welcome that fact .
the european parliament is the voice of human rights and we are making do with just one hour .
we need the opportunity to speak out .
"we must be able to exert pressure on the commission , but preferably not under such strict time pressure ."
"mr mann , I understand your frustration ."
"that , I am afraid , is the problem , but your comments have been noted ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
"debates on cases of breaches of human rights , democracy and the rule of law"
religious freedom in pakistan 
resolution religious freedom in pakistan
before the vote on paragraph 13 
"however , paragraph 13 is confusing and muddled and does not actually mean anything ."
"the content is the same , but the wording is tighter ."
we are asking you to vote in favour of this new wording .
situation in thailand 
resolution situation in thailand
burma 
resolution burma
voting time
the next item is the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament .
the sitting was closed at 16.30 
resumption of the session
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 20 may 20statements by the president
there is going to be an exhibition on this subject in brussels .
thank you for your understanding .
we would like as many europeans as possible to be familiar with the way parliament works .
"last year , the authorities carried out 488 executions and imprisoned thousands of people ."
"unfortunately , this was another murder of a christian clergyman in the region of the middle east ."
we talked about this during the celebrations .
it can be said that this is one of the most citizen friendly accords .
our citizens understand this very well .
the schengen accords provided a great stimulus towards building a european union of the citizens .
"in the last two weeks , I have made official visits to greece and romania ."
we also spoke about the fact that solidarity should always be accompanied by responsibility .
"finally , the last item of information ."
this is very important for the achievement of our common ideal the ideal of a united europe .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
request for the defence of parliamentary immunity see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
signature of acts adopted under codecision see minutes
documents received see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
petitions see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
action taken on parliament's resolutions see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity developments see minutes
order of business see minutes
mandate for the trilogue on the 2011 draft budget debate 
this is a huge qualitative change .
what does this mean in practice ?
now we have to think carefully at first reading about what we really want to achieve .
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the opinions of other committees for their contribution .
these words of appreciation are first and foremost of a personal nature .
we cannot get down to such a level of detail during the first negotiations .
what was agreed in 2006 is now slowly becoming insufficient for the new priorities .
we have two parallel processes which are at the same time slightly opposed to each other .
these two opposing processes are also being affected by the restrictions of the multiannual financial framework .
"margins are being reduced , and the european parliament has less and less leeway to finance its priorities ."
it is essential that we talk about this with the commission and the council in june .
"otherwise , they will just stay on paper and be empty words ."
i strongly encourage you to endorse the report of the committee on budgets .
it is summarised in paragraph 9i would like to thank everyone again for all their contributions .
many of these matters will come back in september as amendments .
this is vital to achieving a successful and timely outcome to the 2011 budgetary procedure .
the commission has presented a draft budget which respects the financial framework and is based on sound estimates .
its innovative abilities are a key resource for the development and growth of the european union .
good budgetary implementation remains also essential and in particular the implementation of the structural and cohesion funds .
"as you know , there is much pressure on farmers and the rural community ."
there are some concerns around agriculture .
there have been problems in the past and we fear that these might happen again .
it needs an adequate budget and that must be reflected in the resources that are made available to it .
in 16 years in parliament I do not remember when there was so much pressure from the national treasuries .
parliament will fight to secure that budget .
"this budget is going ahead , developing and taking shape at a difficult time ."
"it is also important , however , to ensure that the fight against climate change remains central ."
there are therefore many challenges to be faced .
thank you very much and my humble apologies .
thefast startclimate finance package should not come at the expense of existing development cooperation programmes .
"secondly , I support the principle of financial assistance to the main acp banana producing countries ."
"strangely enough , we are now seeing more and more examples of member states wanting to pay ."
they just do not want to pay via the eu budget .
they are to be paid for both by the member states directly and out of the eu budget .
this is a very negative development .
"so , should we not make savings in the eu budget ?"
there is no possibility of creating problems .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , may I begin by thanking the rapporteur for her high quality work ."
"the global perspective she adopts , which avoids getting lost in too much detail , is entirely suitable ."
"when negotiating a mandate , it would be inappropriate to get lost in too many details ."
my group will therefore support this mandate .
responding to the environmental crisis and climate change should provide a much greater incentive to europe to take action .
"nonetheless , I am not going to get lost in examples of what I would like ."
"after what happened to the freedom fleet , this is unworthy , to say the least ."
would we be in such a crisis if the eu had spent the money efficiently ?
"please , let us stop this waste of taxpayersmoney now ."
"quite the opposite , in fact ."
complaints are still being made that the increase in the budget is too small .
the report thus seeks to preserve the status quo and does not make real progress in any particular direction .
"i am thinking , for example , of the area of eu agencies ."
perhaps we should look at ourselves .
we could also start to make savings in the european parliament .
"for example , we could all stop travelling business class within europe ."
that could also enable us to make a very reasonable contribution .
trainee exchange is very important .
that is the first cloud of uncertainty .
"the second cloud is the new financial crisis , the crisis of public debt ."
it includes half a dozen flagship priority actions .
"with no source of funding , this strategy has no credibility ."
yet it is presented as the european union's road map for the next 10 years .
should we spend more or should we spend less ?
"all our member states are ruined , and the union itself is funded by them ."
the time has come to show imagination and daring .
"she has established excellent cooperation both with the political groups and , in particular , with the sectoral committees ."
i think that is extremely important in this situation .
"we need to do that in a few areas , despite this difficult situation ."
i am thinking of two areas in particular .
i will just mention three of these quite briefly .
the first concerns youth policy .
"the situation of young people , particularly youth unemployment , involves much more than this ."
"it is about education , it is about labour market policy and it is about social measures ."
my second point concerns the question of gaza .
some are saying that this does not belong in a budget item .
i think that is wrong .
the third point I would like to mention concerns aid .
i therefore appeal to the rapporteur and the political groups to support these highly reasonable amendments .
"mr president , I would like to say a few words about risks and possibilities ."
"until now , starting from 2007 11 , this has not been the case , unfortunately ."
we could believe and work .
the president cut off the speaker 
"mr president , we remain in an unprecedented economic crisis , and across europe ordinary people feel the pain ."
austerity did not start in greece or ireland .
"there are pay cuts or freezes in spain , italy , portugal , the uk and others ."
germany has announced eur 60 billion of tax rises and spending cuts .
european institutions like this one must not be immune to our citizenspain .
it is vital that we recognise what our member states are doing to control their own budgets .
we must approach our own with the same sense of responsibility and realism .
our amendment 34 asks the eu to lead by example .
we were voted and elected to listen to the people .
now is not the time to be deaf to their cries .
"hu thank you very much , mr president ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"mr mészáros , it is connected with catch the eye ."
"it could have been a question to the last speaker , but you did not have such a question ."
i am sorry .
there is no transparent structure .
i would also call for cost efficiency by using the synergies with national external action services .
the european parliament is cooperative and will also be supportive in difficult situations .
"for this reason , we must also involve the european parliament in these matters as co decision maker ."
"hu thank you for the floor , mr president ."
"this is laudable , since these are good and important programmes ."
others cite the difficulties faced by member states and want to cut back the european union's budget .
"ladies and gentlemen , the european union's budget is not the cause of the problem but the solution ."
if we now go into minor details we will lose our most important messages .
my own electoral district is also suffering enormously .
the lives of families have been destroyed in the rains of the past few weeks .
i therefore recommend that we support the rapporteur .
ga those are the most important points in my opinion .
i would like to emphasise several fundamental values .
"firstly , attention has been paid to the income side of the budget ."
we still have a very important moment for reflection before us .
what resources will be left for us to take new initiatives ?
the degree of freedom of resources for new initiatives is getting smaller .
"we have to realise this , and the discussion reflects this clearly ."
"outside the eu , financial aid for palestine is to be cut ."
eight million a year is still a significant amount .
"in the area of administration , parliament must finally put a stop to the establishment of umpteen new agencies ."
"pl firstly , I would like to congratulate mrs jędrzejewska ."
"de mr president , my sincere thanks go to the rapporteur ."
i would like to endorse what mr färm said about youth policy and the promotion of young people .
we have made employment and growth our watchwords and this constitutes the major goal for the next few years .
i believe that there is nothing more important for young europeans than the ability to use their skills .
we will need them if europe is to remain competitive in future .
"our group fully supports the amendment , which is why we have also tabled it ."
"a basic concern , therefore , is to safeguard resources to finance projects ."
"i believe that we should address the risk of recession with immediate , coordinated action ."
time is running out .
"hu thank you , mr president , and I apologise for the previous misunderstanding ."
mention was made here recently of the iter fusion reactor programme .
this is the only international research programme in which the european union plays a leading role .
"there are countries participating in the venture such as russia , china and the united states ."
for this reason I urge my fellow members and those who are preparing the budget to consider this programme .
"as always , the commission will try to act as an honest broker ."
the same is true for the member states .
it was mentioned that the money will have to be spent wisely .
i think it was mr lamassoure who said that it must be better spent .
thank you for all your input .
that is very important .
i think those were the only factual matters .
"in summarising what you have said , I would like to mention several matters ."
this must not happen .
this explains the list for our negotiations at the end of june .
this is why we also need self control .
once again I would like to thank you for all your comments .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on tuesday 15 june 20written statements rule 149 
it also fails to give sufficient consideration to the europe 2020 agenda objectives .
commissioner lewandowski promised us a budget focusing on young people and education .
"unfortunately , the actual financial support proposed does not meet the expectations of the european parliament ."
a great deal can be achieved with relatively little funding in the areas relating to youth policy in particular .
thank you .
"sadly , colleagues , those commitments have not yet been achieved ."
but I have to say the signs are worrying .
the maternal health improvements are there .
"think of trade , think of the common agricultural policy , think of the common fisheries policy ."
without policy coherence our investment in these countries will never pay off .
and it is investment .
so what I want to see is leadership from the eu .
there must be no tinkering at the edges .
so we have an interesting debate tonight .
i want to thank the ngos across europe for supporting my report .
i wish us tonight and especially in the vote tomorrow to put aside our political differences .
they stand as a common framework to coordinate and check international development activities .
they help galvanise development efforts and help deliver opportunity to millions of people around the world .
2010 really is a milestone .
it is also critical that progress towards meeting the mdgs is robust and sustained .
we need to respect our aid commitments of 0.7 % of gni by 2015 at the latest .
we need to turn aid effectiveness from a good concept into tangible reality .
we need to ensure that policy coherence for development becomes a strong tool to guide eu decision making .
"we need to pay special attention to countries most off track , including those in situations of conflict and fragility ."
i very much agree that governance is central to the successful achievement and sustainability of the mdgs .
the commitment to govern effectively is a basic condition of any pursuit of public development strategies and policy .
our aid should act as a catalyst to accelerate domestic resource mobilisation to finance mdgs .
i shall also say a brief word on the discussions we had in the foreign affairs council today .
i am broadly satisfied with the conclusions we have reached .
"there is a clear commitment to meet the 0.7 % oda commitment by 20also , the 12 point eu action plan on mdgs proposed by the commission is reflected rightly ."
"it is by no means perfect , but provides a basis for progress ."
once again my congratulations on parliament's mdgs report .
we did not expect our groups to manage to reach complete agreement .
now mr cashman is saying and I entirely agree with him that we need more resources .
"however , I do not believe that it should always be a question of more taxes ."
i do not believe that the moratorium proposed by mr cashman is a wise move either .
there is talk about 0.7 % .
then there is another matter .
these groups are in a critical situation in many regions .
"it is a fact of our time that no development is possible without security , and vice versa ."
"in addition to the autocratic regimes in uzbekistan and turkmenistan , ethnic violence recently broke out in kyrgyzstan ."
"dire straits , combined with instability and violence , may lead to a humanitarian catastrophe in the region ."
"if we need proof that no durable and sustainable development exists without security , we have it here ."
"let us take , for example , some grave problems relating to health care ."
in ukraine and moldova 300 out of 10 000 people suffer from tuberculosis .
"therefore , the time has come to expand our horizons ."
"although sub saharan africa is crucial to us , we cannot confine the mdgs to this sole , familiar context ."
we are facing new challenges and we have to react to them .
"welcome , mr piebalgs , commissioner for development ."
history has yet to be written .
yet this can be done .
"we can talk about 0.7 % of our gross national product in aid , and even more ."
"yet what we should really be talking about is a different means of coexistence , through fair trade ."
somehow it still seems simpler to provide assistance than to undertake to stop undercutting african small farmers .
"if we limit the opportunities for multinationals to evade taxes , very many coffers in africa will be healthier ."
"my group is quite happy to give 99.9 % support , with a few differences of opinion ."
we keep talking about mdgs .
what are these mdgs ?
"well actually there are eight millennium development goals , and I think we should have had more ."
the trouble is that none of those slums and none of those businesses are registered .
they do not have a capital value .
"yes , nine trillion ."
"however , we have not found a way to capitalise on those properties and those businesses ."
they are outside the legal system .
"had we been able to do that , we would have been able to eliminate poverty faster ."
this is what has happened in other parts of the world .
i would even have gone further in a few places .
"in my view , we have come full circle ."
where is the money to come from ?
"and , of course , britain should leave the european union as soon as possible ."
europe has a great opportunity that of presenting itself as a world partner for development .
all countries must feel it is their moral duty and political obligation to uphold this commitment .
the eu institutions and that includes us can do a lot to reach the targets .
and we can finally recognise that you cannot achieve maternal health without women's rights .
all these example show that development policy is more than a small field .
"aspects of development policies can be found in all our committees , and we should be aware of that ."
and this we should also take into account when designing the external action service .
i would also like to highlight some problem areas in the cashman report .
"finally , paragraph 42 deals with matters relating to our individual freedom of conscience ."
our conclusion is sobering .
our promises will not be met .
"some countries are setting a good example , but my country , germany , does not look good ."
a few minutes ago we were given the eurosceptic and selfish perspective that we needed to return to realism .
"i am particularly grateful about his paragraphs 48 , 49 and 50 on food security ."
i disagree fundamentally with paragraph 22 . you know the reasons .
"we should not go alone on this , and export refunds are not the problem ."
we therefore need additional resources to combat climate change and to help these countries adapt to climate change .
"at the same time , however , we must also be faithful to the millennium goals ."
that is why these resources must be independent .
i welcome the declaration made by commissioner hedegaard that the commission supports this call .
on this point we are always bound to disagree .
"el madam president , I thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done ."
"on the other hand , if we provide development aid we should also expect cooperation ."
taxpayershard earned money must not disappear into mysterious channels .
"de madam president , I would particularly like to thank mr cashman ."
we should not merely look at faceless numbers we need to consider the people affected and their fate .
"member of the commission . madam president , it was a fascinating debate ."
i would just take a couple of points that I think require some clarification .
"the millennium development goals should and can be achieved , and I say this with full responsibility ."
it is not only my view it is also the united nationsview .
it is the view of the developed and the developing world and we need to make an effort .
it is also important that this house calls very strongly for commitment of 0.7 % of gni .
i believe that it is important also to strengthen our relations with sub saharan africa .
i believe that is the right approach and we need to strengthen it .
i will work together with my trade commissioner .
i would finish with a call which michael cashman made that this report really deserves cross party support .
i know that some issues are divisive but they should not divide parliament in strong support for this report .
"rapporteur . madam president , commissioner , I would like to thank you for your closing words ."
i absolutely agree with you .
it has been an interesting debate .
my memory sadly escapes me it is something to do with age .
i want us to see these mdgs achieved .
think not of us here but think of those outside .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on tuesday 15 june 20written statements rule 149 
"its main objective must be to promote the autonomy , independence and initiative of the relevant countries ."
european rail network for competitive freight debate 
i believe that the compromise we are debating today meets these conditions .
the council has made a positive contribution by introducing the annex containing the first new corridors .
"the corridors are established on the basis of certain criteria , the most important of these being economic efficiency ."
every corridor will be managed by an executive board and a management board .
the timetable will still be drafted in accordance with directive 2001 / 14 / ec .
a single point of contact will be established for allocating capacity within the timetable already approved .
this is a great step forward in terms of both transparency and efficiency for the transport company business .
freight does not have any priority .
passenger traffic will not be disrupted .
"on the contrary , it may have advantages , thanks to coordinating decisions at corridor level ."
it is also possible that member states will not get involved in creating a corridor for important reasons .
companies missed an important opportunity to demonstrate that rail traffic can offer an alternative to air traffic .
this regulation marks a step forward in terms of making rail freight transport more efficient .
it remains up to member states to fund the development of their rail infrastructures .
i firmly believe that the needs of the market will highlight the benefit of these investments .
i must also express my thanks to mathieu grosch for the support he has given .
that is what the customers ask for .
"i know , rapporteur , that some people want to go back to the common position ."
corridor managers have also several options as to the way in which the one stop shop should be established .
the infrastructure managers have the responsibility to predefine capacity .
priority rules for trains are not something the commission will ever want to decide from brussels .
"freight traffic is systemically discriminated against today because passenger traffic always has priority , even in cases of disturbance ."
it is the practice of simply working together with other countries .
we recently talked about liberalisation .
we are now talking about freight transport .
we should not normally need to draw up this sort of regulation .
we want to help make freight transport more efficient .
we are in favour of this cooperation .
"we would stress that passenger transport remains a priority , as laid down in 200we want transparent rules at the outset to prevent haphazard decisions being made in crucial situations ."
"but no , they do not want that !"
why is that ?
the rail system of tomorrow cannot work like this .
"in any case , I would like to thank you for your work ."
i would like to emphasise two key points .
"firstly , what we want is competitive rail freight transport ."
"secondly , we want the regulation to give full added value ."
"thirdly , we are talking about the fact that this is an opportunity to increase interoperability ."
for what is the reason for the poor fortunes of the railways ?
very low interoperability .
"fourthly , we have created conditions in which we can , within five years , determine strategic investment needs ."
these are both basic factors for the competitiveness of the real economy in europe .
the managers also have various options regarding how to set up the one stop shop .
"madam president , ladies and gentlemen , I would first like to thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs ."
we in the group of the greens / european free alliance do not want to prioritise freight transport .
"we do , however , want a one stop shop as a point of contact for customers ."
"the intention now , however , is for this one stop shop also to decide on the train paths ."
"for countries with heavily used rail networks and mixed modes of transport , that will be a disaster ."
i still find the current wording incomprehensible .
i therefore consulted qualified lawyers and economists .
that is simply a refusal to face reality !
"there are four problems , for example , with corridor 3 stockholm malmö copenhagen hamburg innsbruck verona naples palermo ."
we want to stop climate change with an alternative transport policy .
"pointless large scale projects , coupled with a refusal to face reality , will only gobble up money ."
that is why we reject this report .
"madam president , I am a strong supporter of the transport of freight by rail ."
we are now paying the price for this .
it is high time that we gave the operation of trains a higher political priority .
we need action and a new vision of rail transport in europe in general .
but for there is abut the railway is not a magic or problem free solution .
it has its achilles heel .
it is then transferred to another lorry for the last stretch .
"this automatically makes the product more expensive , prolongs the transport time and increases the administrative burden ."
"the text has developed between the two readings , and seems to be going in the right direction ."
"how can we , in this house , legitimately call for more ambition with regard to the environment ?"
"it is true that , beyond this text , there may be some problems here and there with infrastructure ."
"i would particularly like to draw your attention , commissioner , to the issue of cross border sections ."
we certainly need this .
"in my opinion , the result is an important one and one to be proud of ."
"therefore , measures need to be taken to give rail transport a further boost ."
"of course , the present regulation is just one means to improve the competitiveness of rail freight transport ."
other necessary measures include optimising the operation of the market and promoting intermodal transport .
it is not a duplication of what national infrastructure managers are already doing today .
"on the contrary , it complements their work and ensures better coordination ."
"however , clear prioritisation criteria do need to be established to optimise the deployment of freight and passenger transport ."
this is very important .
"i come from germany , where it would be terrible if freight transport took priority over passenger transport ."
that would have a very negative effect on local public passenger transport .
"at the same time , we are very well aware that we need a continuous system in europe ."
this is something that we want as well as need .
there are completely different opinions on this .
that is the only source of dissent that we have .
"otherwise , we all agree that we need this freight transport in europe ."
it is obvious that this might reduce the competitiveness of rail transport .
"es madam president , we have just returned from the ten t days held in zaragoza recently ."
that is why this issue is so important .
deutsche bahn is protected .
using a sledgehammer to smooth the way for european network management will not solve the existing problems .
"on the contrary , centralising and fragmenting the responsibilities will generate new problems ."
"therefore , the proposed compromise that is on the table should , in my opinion , be rejected ."
i would simply like to point out that we have different systems and rail networks in the member states .
"thus , this will naturally always be very difficult in the densely populated regions ."
"however , we need to ensure that passenger transport also remains an attractive option in the densely populated regions ."
the creation of such a corridor must ensure better interconnections with the rail infrastructure in neighbouring countries .
"madam president , firstly , the european union does an awful lot of good work ."
only last week we saw success at the european court of justice on roaming rates .
"i think commissioner reding had a very important part to play in that , and I compliment her ."
i think the point made by mr marinescu is important .
"while the amount of freight transported by rail has declined over the years , the climate has now changed ."
"if I may use a pun , you are on the right track the railway track !"
keep it going and have as much success as you had with the roaming charges .
several speakers have already mentioned that in germany we have laid our corridors straight through the large conurbations .
it is a vital link that will link north africa with europe .
the reason was mentioned by commissioner reding greater economic activity and a greater concentration of land transport .
this is one of the two conditions .
it would open up the possibility of linking with various sea ports in the mediterranean .
what surprises me about this draft is the fact that it makes no mention of the brenner base tunnel .
the brenner base tunnel must not become a black hole for billions of euro .
i expect clear information about this construction project .
i think this text has the potential to culminate in an ambitious european project .
i do not think this regulation will have any negative impacts on passenger rail transport .
and we also know that their implementation has to be coordinated and coherent at european level .
we see active participation of all the rail actors .
"in the light of this debate , let me insist once again on two issues ."
the commission thinks it will be very good for europe if this proposal could be voted strongly tomorrow .
the compromise is supported by at least four political groups .
it is also supported by the commission and a statement to this effect will also be made tomorrow .
the compromise is supported by the european associations of hauliers and infrastructure managers .
there is one point which I would like to mention to you .
"therefore , I am sorry , but the view maintained by anyone else is wrong ."
the current compromise has been achieved as a result of difficult negotiations .
conciliation cannot give us any more than we have now .
"on the other hand , it may weaken the regulation's content , making it useless ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on tuesday 15 june 20written statements rule 149 
election of a vice president of the european parliament
"the vote will take place tomorrow , tuesday 15 june 2010 , at 12.00 ."
rights to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings debate 
this is the first to see the light of day .
"broadly speaking , you have to be put in the same position as a local ."
in the original trial both the charge and sentence were delivered orally .
mr mann did not know what he was charged with until after he was convicted .
"the interpreter was a local hairdresser , a friend of the judge's wife ."
i believe parliament made good use of its newly acquired lisbon treaty powers of joint responsibility for legislation .
those are just some of the key points .
strengthening safeguards and defence rights is not at all about being soft on crime .
it is about being tough on crime .
cheap justice is no justice .
i therefore commend this directive to you .
"vice president of the commission . madam president , that is right ."
they are indispensable to promote real mutual trust between the judicial authorities of different member states .
"without this trust , mutual recognition will never work properly ."
that is why I warmly welcome the agreement reached by the two co legislators .
"as commissioner , I am pleased that many of the compromise solutions take inspiration from our march 2010 proposal ."
"the directive , as it is now on the table , will increase the minimum standards ."
i am also very glad that it was possible to have a very swift adoption of this directive .
"having said that , in a spirit of compromise , I will accept the solution ."
what I say now is very important for the future .
this is in accordance with the lisbon treaty and with the stockholm programme .
"as you know , the commission is already working on the subsequent road map measures ."
i will very shortly be putting forward a proposal on the right to information the letter of rights .
the existence of common standards is an essential condition for instilling mutual trust in member stateslegal systems .
efforts have been made to consolidate procedural rights in the european union for a long time .
"an agreement could not be reached and negotiations were abandoned in june 200finally , we have the initiative from the 13 member states ."
i wish to say how pleased I am with the outcome achieved following the negotiations between institutions .
the text we are due on wednesday to vote on makes significant improvements to the member statesproposal .
"the way was open , and it was temporarily blocked by the election of the new commission ."
parliament made amendments to the commission's work .
this meant that the work could be sped up .
"in that case , what is the significance of the europe that we want to build ?"
has that occurred to you ?
"in this regard , I could mention the european arrest warrant , for example ."
"madam president , the question that mrs romero lópez was just asked was obviously very fundamentally important ."
i wish to thank the rapporteur for her excellent teamwork with all our shadow rapporteurs .
"it is , of course , regrettable that it will be 36 months before the directive enters into force ."
this relates to the languages which are covered by the directive .
can the commissioner promise that this is not the case and that this directive also relates to minority languages ?
our amendments refer to various international and european instruments regarding the use of minority and regional languages .
therefore this translation directive is a fig leaf .
"i would note that , even in its own terms , this directive is flawed ."
the decision as to what is relevant for translation lies largely with the prosecutor .
"our distinguished colleague , baroness ludford , has characterised herself many times as a campaigner for human rights ."
that is what matters .
"in fact , not one , but two proposals were tabled ."
"otherwise , we would end up in situations characterised by ambiguity and bickering , which are best avoided ."
"i am now speaking on behalf of the european free alliance meps , representing regions and minorities ."
i stress that the directive also applies to non official languages of the european union .
it is the first of the five measures on the council's roadmap to be realised .
the right to a written translation of important procedural documents does not currently exist in all member states .
"even when it does exist , this right can vary considerably ."
"the right to interpretation between suspects and their lawyers , for example , is not always guaranteed ."
i support the agreement reached in the trilogue .
"that is important for jurisprudence , too ."
i therefore thank you that it has gone so well .
thank you very much .
"de madam president , this report represents progress for europe ."
it is a good step towards creating a europe of lawfulness .
we need to create trust .
"however , I am , of course , aware that this is an especially important and broad field ."
i hope that this aspect will also be satisfied soon during the implementation of the stockholm programme .
my constituent andrew symeou has been held for 11 months awaiting trial in the greek prison of korydallos .
"six more british citizens , including daniel bell and george hollands , face extradition and remand in korydallos ."
the british court is not even allowed to consider the so called evidence against them .
"in fact , the procedure was extremely difficult ."
"however , the conclusions are fruitful ."
we have great expectations .
we hope that a great deal will change .
everything is in the pipeline and will come quickly .
one very important question which has been underlined by several members is the question of language .
so in fact it does not concern only european union languages or minority languages .
it concerns the language of the person who is in front of a tribunal .
why did it happen ?
we are now in a very peculiar period .
we are coming out of the third pillar and find ourselves in a normal codecision situation .
"i am pleased we are debating and voting this directive this week , still under the spanish presidency ."
i strongly agree with vice president reding about the three year implementation period .
it was very cheeky of member states to slip this in unilaterally after we had reached a council parliament deal .
they will not get away with it again .
i say to ukip that there is no call to get nationalistic about the quality of justice .
i hope the new government returns fully to the rule of law .
"the test in the directive is one of comprehension and ability to express oneself , as vice president reding said ."
i ask that the directive be passed unamended and quickly so that it gets on the statute book .
the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149 8 
she has mentioned that kind of thing again .
"in the past , he might have languished for years without being brought back to court ."
he was brought back within six weeks .
he was convicted and he is now serving a sentence under a terrorism conviction .
"you , I suppose , would have been happy that he would never have been brought back to trial ."
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 20written statements rule 149 
the text we are discussing today is a satisfactory and fully acceptable compromise .
"when the suspect is a foreign national , language barriers present a significant problem for conducting criminal proceedings efficiently ."
adoption by estonia of the euro on 1 january 2011 debate 
the reason why estonia should join the eurozone is straightforward .
estonia has met the maastricht criteria laid down in the treaties .
i do not think it is appropriate .
"as has been stated in the past , it demonstrates a lack of respect for parliament ."
"put plainly , during the worst economic and social crisis , estonia has kept its house in order ."
it also carries significant political symbolism .
"finally , this is not to say that an easy economic path ahead lies ahead for estonia ."
"therefore the government needs to maintain vigilance over prices , especially during the changeover period ."
therefore I commend this report to this house .
i also want to congratulate our estonian friends on reaching this important milestone .
i appreciate the overwhelming support for estonia's euro adoption given by parliament's econ committee on 2 june .
"of course , euro adoption will not be the end of the road quite the contrary ."
"in parallel , there is a pressing need to strengthen economic governance in europe ."
that is the way to build up a stronger and more effective economic and monetary union .
i can support him in the general thrust of his comments and also in the concerns that he raises .
this leadership goes beyond simply putting their house in order and making the sacrifices that go with that .
i welcome estonia and I think they are doing the right thing .
the experience from my country another small country has been almost entirely beneficial .
think about where small countries would otherwise be .
we would be truly lost .
there has to be some way of dealing with that .
i am glad to support the general thrust of the rapporteur's report .
then it will be a little less than a month before the council's official decision .
"specifically , this meant several budget cuts in 2008 and 200i am sure that estonia will continue its very appropriate , transparent and reasonable fiscal policy in the future ."
"we have realised that , in a small country with an open economy , there is no other option ."
estonia's accession is a positive sign to the whole of europe .
i would like to assure you that estonia is ready to join the euro area .
thank you .
the council will also take its decision without any political benefit .
it shows that there are still countries that have real confidence in this european project .
"what impact that might have on the budget , we do not know ."
i would like to ask the commission to provide some clarity in this regard .
we fully support his conclusions .
their ability to keep their public deficit in check despite the high pressures of unemployment is to be applauded .
the scicluna report congratulates estonia on replacing current and capital account deficits with current and capital account surpluses .
"this appears to be good news , but there are dangers on the horizon ."
"lv madam president , when it comes to football , we fans expect things to happen logically ."
we expect the team with the best discipline and the greatest commitment to win the world cup .
this sort of logic should also be applied in the event of euro area enlargement .
budget discipline and the implementation of reforms must be rewarded by admission to the euro area .
"they prepared the ground , in fact , for today's euro crisis ."
the introduction of the euro in estonia would be good news on three fronts .
thank you for your attention .
the baltic tigers became the sick men of europe following an economic boom lasting several years .
"nonetheless , we now have estonia preparing to join the euro area in record time ."
"however , this country's accession will strengthen the euro area at a critical juncture ."
it has been able to tackle it with prompt austerity and fiscal discipline measures .
the experience of states which have previously joined it highlights major risks in terms of price rises .
"in this respect , mr scicluna is quite right to draw attention to the risk of inflation ."
"last but not least , estonia's transition to the euro also has a symbolic aspect ."
"sv madam president , I would like to direct a personal note of praise to estonia ."
europe and the euro are currently facing severe problems .
difficult times separate the wheat from the chaff .
the euro is the most visible symbol of a united europe .
all credit to estonia .
this will make it the 17th country to adopt the euro .
this also sends out a strong signal in terms of the euro area's possible expansion towards the east .
lt I would also like to add to today's congratulations to estonia's administration .
in fact every state has its own particular historical past .
good luck .
"the euro has come in for much criticism , especially and predictably in the anglo saxon press ."
"let us , for example , recall the excellent tax reforms which they instituted ."
"we need allies to that end , and I count on estonia in that regard ."
i think it was mr brons who referred to estonia supposedly losing its recently regained independence and its freedom .
"rapporteur . madam president , thank you for your explanation , mr rehn ."
i understand the timetable is such .
i wish the estonian people well .
they have so far succeeded in proving the critics wrong .
i therefore commend this report to the house .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 20written statements rule 149 
one minute speeches on matters of political importance
the next item is the one minute speeches on matters of political importance .
the romanian government has issued an emergency ordinance banning dozens of such substances .
"many deaths have been recorded , while the health of thousands of people is at risk ."
imposing a gradual ban on them cannot be a realistic solution for tackling the problem .
romania is fortunate because it has noticed the rise in this phenomenon in good time .
"however , it could be just as active in other european countries as well ."
"european , as well as romanian organisations working in this sector have already voiced their criticism ."
"it madam president , ladies and gentlemen , please allow me a moment ."
"the speaker pretends to gag herself for a few seconds , to show that she cannot speak "
"this decree law more or less bans journalists , bloggers everyone from publishing wiretaps ."
"i would like to use an example that is striking , evident and real ."
i therefore call the attention of the european institutions to this matter .
he referred to the situation asworrying.
that has to be a diplomatic understatement .
the situation in iran is appalling !
what a wonder of technology this hidden camera is !
we should erect a monument to it in every country .
this was the spoils of war .
"nowadays , the spoils of war go by the name of commission , attention or sponsorship ."
"it is time for us to combine our efforts and destroy the mafia , these ever resourceful parasites ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"the policy has not been crowned with success , basically due to the intransigence of the cuban dictatorship ."
"this new policy undertaken by the spanish government will , however , produce results sooner rather than later ."
the very first legal act of the new hungarian parliament was an act on dual citizenship .
"the hungarian government has refused to discuss this act , which has dramatic cross border consequences , with neighbouring countries ."
this is a gross violation of the european principle of friendly coexistence of nations .
"this should ring alarm bells in europe , to say the very least ."
all military conflicts on our continent have been preceded by such comments .
the european parliament and ministers will be giving more power to eurostat to audit member statesbudgets .
the majority of us support eurostat's extended powers and the increased opportunities for inspection .
twenty two executions have been reported in iran for the month of june alone .
i think the european parliament needs to send a strong signal of solidarity to the iranian people .
some members may be aware of the recent murder of bobby moffat .
"i am referring to bananas , rum and sugar ."
"i would like to make it clear , however , that we are not against the agreement ."
"together with poland , hungary and the czech republic , slovakia is also hugely affected by the flood waves ."
the solidarity of the european union is thus extremely important at the moment .
it is particularly crucial for aid to arrive quickly .
such discrimination against citizens is completely unacceptable .
the eu needs a high speed rail transport infrastructure which will serve all eu capitals and europe's major cities .
it also has to modernise the infrastructure of the sea and river ports .
"madam president , I rise to draw attention to the blockade in the indian state of manipur ."
"highway 39 , which links the state to the rest of india , has been blockaded since 12 april ."
the road has been blockaded by naga tribespeople and particularly by the all naga studentsassociation .
"hu madam president , floods are causing devastation in hungary and in neighbouring slovakia ."
"almost at the same time , both countries are holding parliamentary elections ."
these parallel events evoke a suggestive metaphor .
"my own country , romania , is one of those struggling with the post communist crisis ."
i am pleased that the hungarian and slovak elections have brought anti communist victories .
we must not forget that pensioners represent acaptivesocial group .
this is why I urge this priority to be the main objective of this document .
hu this month we are commemorating the 90th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of trianon .
millions of hungarians found themselves under the rule of a foreign country without having left their homeland .
"unfortunately , in this area we hungarians of slovakia cannot be entirely satisfied ."
these proposals must be supported simultaneously by innovative measures to help reduce material losses caused by flooding .
"today , I would draw your attention to the fact that media freedom has met a similar fate ."
i am of the view that these general trends should not go unnoticed .
"objectivity of information is not just a pillar of democracy , but also one of the fundamental human rights ."
the reason for taking this position was the tragic death of a detainee on hunger strike .
the cuban regime responded cynically and declared that it would not give in to international pressure .
"indeed a lot has changed in recent years , but cuba's oppressive dictatorship has remained ."
our common foreign policy must be marked by consistency and credibility .
a hungarian proverb says he who gives quickly gives twice .
it seems that the european parliament is fulfilling this expectation .
"they are nearly all children of spanish officials , and are being discriminated against and treated unfairly ."
"moreover , these are boys and girls who speak languages ."
we believe that this is inherently unjust .
"firstly , because spain signed all the agreements and conventions and is not keeping to them ."
"secondly , because it is basic discrimination ."
"pt madam president , I would like to lodge a complaint and an appeal ."
"these are products with extremely high levels of lead , zinc , cadmium , chromium and arsenic ."
"although the portuguese national authorities have been alerted to it , they have taken no action ."
"therefore , madam president , I am also appealing to the european institutions to intervene ."
i have already approached the european commission to ask for this intervention .
all these are fundamental elements that will be taken into account by the italian parliament .
i would like to make two comments .
the tragedy has been explained in accordance with a familiar formula the mental instability of the murderer .
the same argument has also been used to explain other religious murders in turkey .
the diagnosis was made almost as soon as the investigation began .
it is easiest to pigeonhole the whole affair and then classify the perpetrator as a religious extremist .
this shows how the work of the media is bearing fruit .
"where a catholic issue is involved , they react in whatever way suits them ."
"they either remain silent , or they unleash a hate campaign ."
the cost of running these pools would amount to perhaps eur 1 million per year .
"meanwhile , the irish government is pouring eur 30 billion into recapitalising banks and developers ."
"incredibly , dublin city has been selected as the european capital of sport 2010 !"
that concludes the item .
derivatives markets future policy actions short presentation 
"mr mccreevy your predecessor , mr barnier needed to be goaded into action ."
you have parliament fully on your side with a clear and fair regulation of the derivatives markets .
"thus , we will only be able to solve the problem if we solve the debt problems ."
the market needs rules .
derivatives are considered to be one of the basic causes which helped trigger the financial crisis .
"in the short term , reducing counterparty risk is an important objective ."
this can be achieved by using central counterparty clearing houses more frequently .
transactions need to be centralised through a central counterparty in order to increase transparency .
"in this respect , central counterparties help preserve the integrity of the stock market ."
this is a timely report that is of a high quality and that is economically and politically important .
"i believe that this is indeed the right approach to this issue , given its financial and economic importance ."
"that is what we need to change and what you , mr langen , propose in your report ."
"however , we must also do all of this swiftly , effectively , and without improvising ."
in fact today we launched a public consultation to finalise our proposals on some specific aspects .
"thirdly , the conditions under which clearing houses in third countries can offer these services in europe ."
how should we regulate them ?
should we demand that they be established in the european union ?
i should like to highlight a few more specific points from the langen report .
"however , we will continue to work on this issue ."
i have also noted your preference for clearing houses and central repositories to be located in europe .
"personally , mr langen , I am in favour of such an approach ."
that is why we presented three different options with regard to trade repositories in our consultation .
this is also a very important issue on which we must continue to work .
"mr langen , responsibility in the areas of supervision and authorisation is linked to tax liability ."
here too we must strive for general transparency in these markets and establish tools to combat their excessive volatility .
we will also present a legislative proposal in september .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow tuesday 15 june 2010 .
internet of things short presentation 
they could improve many aspects of our lives and open up opportunities for new businesses and improvements in production .
"they do , however , obviously have risks ."
i think that this a good approach .
this is only the beginning .
is that not true ?
"pl madam president , the internet of things is part of the digital agenda ."
"unfortunately , in europe there are currently very large differences in terms of internet access ."
poland comes behind many european countries only 13 % of households there have access to broadband internet .
"el madam president , I should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work ."
"in fact , this debate is a debate about the future ."
the problems are clear .
who will manage the new technology ?
what will happen to sensitive personal data ?
how private will our personal data ultimately be ?
how good will the security be ?
we must not leave the internet of things to develop without regulations providing precautionary measures .
this is a clear political signal and a task for the european commission .
so congratulations for the pioneering role in pointing out the key challenges of the internet of things .
and we certainly must avoid people feeling that the internet of things was pushed upon them .
it is great .
i think that was one of those challenges that parliament as well as the commission is facing .
"it will be composed of representatives from civil society , industry , regulatory agencies , universities , governments ."
"on the issue of protecting people's data , protection is an important point in our digital agenda ."
it is about trust and security .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow tuesday 15 june 2010 .
written statements rule 149 
internet governance the next steps short presentation 
we therefore strongly supported it while proposing a few corrections to the way that it operates .
"respected colleagues , the internet is the great sea the ocean that must unite europeans in freedom ."
thank you very much for listening at this time of night .
the internet provides a substitute for social encounters .
"however , this self regulation is not working in the way that we would like it to ."
cs the internet has so far been managed without government involvement .
"from a security perspective , self regulation is no longer acceptable ."
cyberterrorism or the one sided influence of states such as china and its secret services are matters of great urgency .
we also need to increase democratic representation .
user or consumer organisations and associations of internet businesses do not currently have sufficient space to express their views .
i trust that the european commission will take all of this into account .
ro we have reached the point where citizens and organisations cannot do without using the internet .
pl I would like to offer my congratulations on this report .
"in addition , we are , indeed , dealing here with a classic question of recognition ."
participation in the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers must be based on partnership .
"of course , freedom in the internet and fundamental rights are key principles ."
"however , let us remember the most important things , chiefly associated with the protection of minors ."
"the question of internet gambling , which is being discussed in parallel , is also an important factor ."
the internet also brings pornography and online gambling into our homes and into children's rooms .
parliament and the commission share many similar ideas and goals in this respect .
i warmly welcome the european parliament's intention to participate again this year with a strong delegation .
i hope we can continue to work in this spirit in the area of internet governance .
you can be absolutely sure of this .
we should take our responsibility and fulfil our important role .
in any case we can do more together than each on his own .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow tuesday 15 june 2010 .
our thanks to all the interpreters and staff .
written statements rule 149 
i therefore welcome european financial support which will enable romania to guarantee every household internet access .
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
documents received see minutes
mobilisation of european globalisation adjustment fund ireland / waterford crystal 
mobilisation of european globalisation adjustment fund es / castilla la mancha 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund technical assistance at the initiative of the commission 
mandate for the trilogue on the 2011 draft budget 
derivatives markets future policy actions 
internet of things 
internet governance the next steps 
community innovation policy in a changing world 
voting time
the next item is voting time .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting was closed at 24.00 
opening of the sitting
membership of the delegation to the cariforum ec parliamentary committee deadline for tabling amendments see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
joint baltic sea research and development programme bonus 169 
structures for the management of the european satellite radio navigation programmes 
european earth observation programme gmes 2011 2013 
conclusion of the statute of the international renewable energy agency irena 
adoption by estonia of the euro on 1 january 2011 
draft amending budget no 4 / 2010 section iii commission 2009 surplus 
rights to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings 
12 . preparations for the european council meeting 17 june 2010 eu 2020 vote 
13 . preparations for the european council meeting 17 june 2010 economic governance vote 
proposals for appointments to the delegation to the cariforum ec parliamentary committee 
that concludes the vote .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 09 00 
announcement by the president see minutes
a catch documentation programme for bluefin tuna thunnus thynnus 
application of the provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system in bulgaria and romania 
quality of statistical data in the union and enhanced auditing powers by the commission eurostat vote 
gender aspects of the economic downturn and financial crisis 
"sport , specifically concerning playersagents vote "
trade in goods used for torture vote 
bosnia and herzegovina 
eu us air agreement 
implementation of the first railway package directives 
a new impetus for the strategy for the sustainable development of european aquaculture 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
"debates on cases of breaches of human rights , democracy and the rule of law"
democratic republic of congo the case of floribert chebeya bahizire 
executions in libya 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
council position at first reading see minutes
oral questions submission see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned .
the sitting was closed at 16.15 
resumption of the session
the sitting was opened at 15.05 
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
composition of political groups see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
documents received see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
the sitting was suspended at 17.20 
resumption of the session
"i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on wednesday , 23 june 20approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes"
2011 general budget deadline for tabling draft amendments 
signature of acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure see minutes
documents received see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
petitions see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting was closed at 23.15 
opening of the sitting
documents received see minutes
review of the spanish presidency debate 
the first item is the statements by the council and the commission review of the spanish presidency .
"mr zapatero , you have the floor ."
these have been the two main objectives .
i would like to emphasise that we have produced results of great significance during this period .
there has been a substantial advance in economic governance .
this is a strategy in which we have collaborated by giving support to the commission .
it will contain many more prevention mechanisms in the face of what may be systemic risks .
it is a better treaty .
it is a treaty that seeks the closest possible union .
"however , it is a treaty that requires great political will from all 27 member states ."
"in the same way , we have strengthened neighbourhood relations ."
"with regard to turkey , chapter twelve was also opened ."
"we also approved the action plan for the 2010 stockholm programme , along with the internal security strategy ."
"i would also like to end with a very brief reflection , mr president ."
applause 
"mr president , honourable members ."
this crisis has posed us new challenges and required new responses from us .
"so far , we have passed the test ."
the efforts made by all spanish authorities have also been crucial .
thank you very much for that .
europe 2020 is our agenda for the european social market economy in the 21st century .
these objectives are important .
many people expressed doubts about the relevance of setting such an objective within the european framework .
our objectives are having a catalysing effect .
they are communicated well and are well targeted .
"in addition , they provide us with a structure for driving and verifying progress ."
the next challenge for all of us is to translate these into actual results .
together with the european parliament the spanish presidency has also brought significant progress in the area of financial regulation .
"however , I did not saybreakthrough."
i call on all member states and all members of this house to assume their full responsibility .
it is a critical political signal .
all three institutions must now make decisive moves to seal the package before the summer break .
the first is the european citizensinitiative .
the commission strongly supports the objective of putting it in place as quickly as possible .
we have been quick to make our proposal after an extensive consultation involving all relevant stakeholders .
"finally , I would like to commend the spanish contribution in promoting the external dimension of eu policies ."
the presidency has helped prepare an unprecedented number of summits with europe's strategic partners in the world .
spain has also made an invaluable contribution in setting up the european external action service .
i therefore strongly believe that the agreement deserves the support of parliament .
"to spain thank you , muchas gracias ."
applause 
my group expects european leaders to send a message of unity and confidence and to organise themselves accordingly .
applause 
applause 
"in the closing phases , however , it was the presidency that made the decisive contribution ."
this is a success of the spanish presidency .
the spanish presidency made a significant contribution to achieving the swift agreement .
i have the following to say to the president of the commission .
the credit for this expressly belongs to parliament and the spanish presidency .
we have made considerable progress in this respect in these last few days .
"besides , we must have a leading role for europe ."
let us look again at the reality of the last fortnight .
the speculative attack on the euro has been deflected for the time being .
what is happening ?
they turn to where they believe they can make their profit quickest .
what we need are worldwide rules .
this is also a step in the right direction .
i do not always have the impression that this is the case for everyone in the council .
mr daul is right to have referred to the defence of the community method .
that is why I believe that the rotating presidency has proved its worth .
"overall , the spanish presidency was a successful presidency ."
thank you for your efforts and thank you for your attention .
"mr president , if football does not count , I , too , shall now make a footballing analogy ."
the spanish presidency seems to me a little like fernando torres's world cup .
"it began with high expectations , but hitherto , it has been a rather disappointing tournament ."
this was absolutely the correct approach in the crisis .
"i must say , however , on behalf of my group , that we are disappointed with the result ."
"not so much with the presidency of the council as such , but with the member states ."
we all know how diplomatic mr barroso is .
there are also problems in the council when it comes to financial supervision .
the crisis has shown that this approach has failed .
the council should not stand in the way of efficient european financial supervision .
the taxpayer is unable and unwilling to rescue the banking system one more time .
much the same goes for the eu 2020 strategy .
"in the council , they behave as if the lisbon strategy had not failed due to mistaken ideas ."
"that is precisely the case , however ."
the open method of coordination broke down .
"here , too , we need more european cooperation ."
a jobs and growth strategy aiming for success must be based on the community method .
the new strategy does not do this to a sufficient degree .
this house has called for a different approach .
"for this purpose , we need an efficient growth strategy with potential for success ."
"in foreign policy , more would surely have been achieved if spain had recognised kosovo ."
this weakened the position of the council on this question from the very beginning .
the us eu summit and the meeting of the union for the mediterranean were cancelled .
there is one final comment I should like to make .
"mr president , I shall make no remarks about football ."
i know you are all too clever for that .
i shall only say it is a pity that ghana has been eliminated .
"we can all agree on that , can we not ?"
good .
we have indulged in empty rhetoric .
"plainly and simply , the problem is that we must face reality for once ."
that will not work .
i can already see the council saying that we must reduce the european budget because of the crisis .
"that means you can already mothball 20we are always saying we want growth , growth , growth ."
"yes , but what sort of growth ?"
those who want growth cannot only get growth by saving .
we need a european fund .
"yes , but it must be a fund for solidarity and investment ."
where today is europe speaking about investment ?
where ?
i have not heard it mentioned once in any of the speeches .
"you can announce as many sanctions as you want , they will be of no avail ."
i have heard nothing about that today not a word .
i would like to reiterate something with regard to swift .
"mr schulz , this house has decided on a single paragraph on swift ."
"now comes the agreement that you approve of , and the answer is europol ."
i did not know that europol was a judicial institution one learns something new every day .
"that is nonsense , since the police have to work with each other ."
one force cannot monitor the other .
no legal system makes provision for one police force to monitor another police force .
"i believe that after six months . well , we will have to see after the next few presidencies ."
there is a real problem of dysfunctionality .
we should have the clarity of mind to discuss this problem in the future .
"instead , sadly , too often , this presidency has appeared more interested in sound bites than substance ."
"it had sought a summit of the mediterranean union , but this was cancelled ."
"turning to the economy , the spanish presidency has been virtually invisible ."
"spain is a key member of the european union , with its proud heritage and vibrant modern democracy ."
"it has so much to offer , and in this house we have many distinguished spanish representatives ."
that is the plain truth .
there is great consensus .
"they are not responsible , and yet they are going to pay for the crisis ."
"at the end of the 1980s , the washington consensus moved to brussels ."
"it is a photocopy , mr president ."
you began with the resounding failure that is the lisbon strategy .
"we do not have a single instrument , and we continue in our commitment to this failed policy ."
"logically , therefore , the response of the european workersmovement cannot be otherwise ."
general strikes .
the president cut off the speaker 
"on behalf of the efd group . mr president , I should like to address mr zapatero ."
this is not the handful of british citizens that some want us to believe .
the suggested solution is that the owners can have their houses legalised for a fee .
"they have already paid , mr zapatero ."
my constituents regularly ask who is running spain .
this is why he feels that the european union is not capable of protecting british citizens .
none of this has come to pass .
let us move on to some details .
"that said , it must be acknowledged that several praiseworthy initiatives have been adopted during these six months ."
"goodbye , then , to the spanish presidency ."
he continued to be late and unsuccessful .
"mr president , the greatest crisis that we politicians are living through is that of confidence ."
a crisis of confidence of such magnitude can only be resolved if we dare to tell the truth .
applause 
"above all , it did so with results ."
it has also been political .
"we must row together , otherwise the european union may slide towards irrelevance ."
the lesson from this is clear .
"hence , we have the motto of the european union united in diversity ."
in no case should we be disunited in the face of adversity .
"from now on , every presidency must think globally , not locally ."
applause 
"in addition to prestige , leading these projects requires authority and recognition ."
one may also ask whether the rotating presidencies are helping to strengthen real european leadership .
"again , there has not been much respect for this parliament at the end ."
we will continue demanding a voice for europe's regions .
the president cut off the speaker 
"you demonstrated that , for example and here I congratulate you by promoting the european protection order ."
swift is not good news to me it is very bad news .
"unfortunately , it is apparent that in external policy , spain was not up to the task ."
"nonetheless , I thank you and congratulate you for your work in the council ."
"the spanish presidency has left no enduring traces , mr zapatero ."
"in football speak , one would have to say that it was an own goal ."
i shall mention just a few points .
you said that we have remained true to the spirit and the letter of the treaty of lisbon .
i would query this .
the rescue package contravenes the treaties and the budgetary rights of parliament under article 3not even the president of this house was involved .
we have no concrete progress on the stability and growth pact .
these are the facts .
"so , this is hardly a successful report card ."
the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 8 
that would assist the inner coherence of your argument .
applause 
it is the spanish presidency that we are discussing .
mr zapatero said he has accomplished everything in good faith .
the reality is different .
"we could still do that too , mr schulz ."
applause 
it is a solid record of achievement .
the situation with regard to the spanish economy in 2010 is reminiscent of that in 195your european presidency has been very poor .
you have avoided the big decisions .
"to use a footballing expression , felipe gonzález would certainly have scored with this ball ."
"your presidency has coincided with the spanish economic collapse , which you were warned about ."
"as a result , today , the international financial markets remain closed to a great many spanish companies ."
i see that you agree with thefinal solutionfor catalan .
"i conclude with some verses by machado , inspired by your frivolities ."
"specifically , what happened to the euro mediterranean summit or the summit with the united states ?"
when will kosovo be recognised ?
where are the measures to guarantee fulfilment of the europe 2020 strategy ?
in which documents have you established the mediterranean axis as a priority ?
many of us have spent a lot longer putting up with this model .
"unfortunately , the trust which we initially placed in the spanish presidency has not been repaid at all ."
"mr zapatero , do not resent these words of open criticism ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"previously , the council has refused to lay adequate accounts before the european parliament ."
"sessions had , at best , an informal character ."
"one had to collect documents bit by bit , or they were unavailable ."
answers to questions were unsatisfactory .
this has now changed .
this success of the spanish presidency testifies to the democratic and european convictions of the spanish government .
"for this , it deserves the praise of this house ."
you yourself pointed out once that the european union is a club with rules and I agree .
"however , it was up to you to demand obedience to these rules ."
the reality is that it was the government of spain that urgently needed to fulfil its obligations .
"within this context , positive achievements , whilst not lacking , have been undistinguished ."
"unlike me , you have had time to talk about them ."
democracy is a public opinion based system .
"at best , this presidency has been sadly irrelevant ."
the spanish presidency delivered what was expected concerning the most important institutional issues .
we did not agree on everything but we began to fill the lisbon framework with life and concrete details .
"next to these seemingly technical issues , the presidential programme of our spanish friends did not lack policy ambitions ."
they established themselves as models for working towards gender equality and the promotion of women's rights .
the spanish also met high expectations on democratic rights .
congratulations !
this is something which causes us very great concern .
"mr president , the spanish presidency has coincided with a deep financial and credibility crisis in the union ."
this crisis has hit the country holding the presidency very hard .
last week's economist asked is there life after debt ?.
"on several occasions , we have missed the council at question time in strasbourg ."
"lastly , I am concerned that cyber threats have not been high on the spanish agenda ."
cyber weapons are being developed secretly and we have no idea of how and when they could be used .
we now have a social nightmare of mass unemployment and a tax on living standards across europe .
i salute the workers of spain for fighting these cuts with strong strike action .
"clearly , the capitalist system only contains more and more disasters as it goes into deeper crisis ."
"earlier , we heard criticism about issues relating to spanish property ."
"that is what we , in the british labour delegation , want to do ."
the spectre of financial collapse also hung over spain itself .
greater consideration was given to the future of the euro area than to the priorities of the spanish presidency .
"these problems will now have to be taken on , too , by the belgian presidency ."
"de mr president , it is common knowledge that the spanish presidency was highly problematic ."
the spanish presidency was announced at the start of the year as a landmark in history .
"important meetings have fallen through , and it was only possible to agree on stop gap measures ."
"nevertheless , the presidency was unique ."
"in january , the prime minister of spain presented ambitious plans to be realised during his leadership ."
"unfortunately , not a great deal of this proved possible to achieve ."
"however , this is not the main reason why the spanish presidency cannot be evaluated positively ."
the spanish presidency has also embarked on economic governance .
the spanish presidency has also started to put speculative international money transactions and the money markets in order .
the belgian and hungarian presidency will have to continue this policy .
the commission's paper will be finalised this year and the hungarian presidency will see some hot debates .
"regarding the spanish presidency , I think that the dynamic is all wrong in terms of judging it ."
"there is too much talk about leadership , success , flagship projects and so forth ."
"in fairness to the spanish , they did a good job in moving from pre lisbon to post lisbon ."
applause 
applause 
"however , in my opinion , we have other things to do here ."
we are here to judge and assess the main themes of the presidency and its six month tenure .
this was our first great challenge within the european union as we have built it .
now let us see what the result is .
"it may be that the objective , which is entirely legitimate , is not shared ."
applause 
"let us , therefore , look at the facts ."
"yes , yes , let us look at the facts ."
"however , in the end , that is how things are ."
from the start .
we will fulfil each and every one of our commitments .
it is also true that there were major agreements and summits with latin america .
what is important is the tally of agreements .
i cannot agree with this in any way it is unacceptable so I do not accept it .
i reject it utterly .
my country is under the rule of law .
applause 
we will work and do whatever is in our power .
"we have felt supported by you , mr president ."
"we have felt understood by you , encouraged by you ."
"we have felt close to this institution , although , at times , there have been harsh voices ."
applause 
"mr president , I will be very brief ."
"i am thinking of my fellow members , mr daul , mr schulz , and mr lambsdorff ."
i think it is right to highlight that a lot depended on this first rotating presidency .
how would the rotating presidency interpret the treaty of lisbon ?
"the treaty of lisbon has always stood for more europe , not less europe ."
"the treaty of lisbon stands for more europe , not less europe ."
and the spanish presidency's interpretation favoured more europe .
"however as the spanish prime minister said very well , the treaty does not resolve every problem ."
spain has set an example .
this commission is less than five months old .
we must be united in order to strengthen our european project .
"thank you , mr barroso ."
"once again , I would like to thank the spanish presidency and mr zapatero ."
that completes this item .
written statements rule 149 
there are now new actors such as the president of the council and the high representative for foreign affairs .
"secondly , this presidency has been faced with a period of severe financial and social crisis in europe ."
"regrettably , the spanish presidency did not seek answers to the serious problems that the european union is experiencing ."
"furthermore , during this time , unacceptable measures were taken which demonstrate a lack of solidarity ."
"moreover , what they did in relation to the sovereign debt is very serious ."
this also proves who holds power in the european union after all .
"the list of the greatest powers is becoming increasingly limited to germany and , at best , france ."
the slow solutions were subsequently of poor quality .
the approval of the europe 2020 strategy will mean taking the same approach .
the results of the spanish presidency of the council of the european union can most certainly be considered successful .
"besides , if the romanians arecorrupt, who was it whocorruptedthem ?"
i congratulate the spanish presidency on the past six months of leadership of the union .
it was a difficult and a significant presidency .
the crisis in greece slowed down realisation of the presidency's objectives .
i would also like to applaud the progress made on the cooperation agreement between the eu and mercosur .
the sitting was suspended for several minutes 
"mr president , commissioner , I am very grateful that the commissioner can be here ."
i am sure that the spanish presidency's need for discussion is about to come to an end .
"where we had bulk data transfer in swift , we now have a bulk gathering in parliament ."
"well , let it be so ."
"we govern with , and together with , the commission and the council at european level ."
"it was impossible to alter certain things , or to reopen the agreement ."
"furthermore , an important issue for all groups was the transfer of bulk data to the united states ."
"this means that we have the possibility of revisiting this afresh , without surprising anyone or damaging mutual interests ."
internal european bank data transfers will also largely not be conducted via swift .
"these are instead sepa data , which are explicitly excluded from the agreement ."
"one can never attain 100 % , however , when one has four negotiating partners ."
we shall endeavour to exercise the rotating presidency with verve and a great deal of belgian persuasiveness .
parliament has clearly played its part in this .
it decided on 11 february 2010 to reject the interim agreement .
the new agreement was approved on 28 june 20article 18 is a good article .
article 12 represents a second improvement .
this is a methodology we need to master .
we need to further strengthen our own institutions .
we need to have faith in them .
"europol has experience with data protection rules , and we must assume that this was a good choice ."
"the fight against terrorism is necessary , and we must ensure that it is carried out ."
one thousand five hundred dossiers have already been handed over in that way .
i would like to thank all of you wholeheartedly .
let me just mention a few points .
the rapporteur laid out the provisions that we will take .
"immediately after the vote , I will begin a study to consider the possible introduction of a european system ."
this is a major achievement .
"moreover , the agreement empowers the eu to undertake regular and detailed reviews of the tftp ."
the first such review will take place six months after the entry into force of the agreement .
"this is indeed an achievement of europe the council , parliament and the commission ."
this has been a serious situation and I am relieved that we are now closing this security gap .
the london bombings took place exactly five years ago .
"for all these reasons , I would ask you to give your consent to the agreement on thursday ."
applause 
i must especially thank the rapporteurs for having done a good job .
"it is a new start , as mrs malmström said ."
this agreement is about the serious balance between fighting terrorism and protecting the freedoms of our citizens .
"tomorrow in my constituency of london , we celebrate the anniversary of the 7 / 7 bombing ."
"we all know what this agreement is about , but balance is critical ."
better an eu deal with real safeguards than bilateral agreements with unknown consequences .
i know that he has been working very hard to achieve what we have today .
the text of this agreement is not perfect .
we have been constructive from the start .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the opposite of good is good intentions ."
"for these reasons , we as parliament should not vote for such an agreement ."
parliament has had to push hard to be heard and for its voice to be respected .
it represents for us the future possibility of our own eu tftp system .
"it is certainly more equal , more open and more democratic ."
that is exactly why this agreement is needed .
"last night in committee , this agreement was overwhelmingly adopted ."
now is the time for the reputation of the eu as a serious international body to be renewed .
now is the time for us to behave reasonably and responsibly .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , what are we talking about ?"
now the transfer of bulk data is here .
"therefore , there are good reasons for continuing to vote against it ."
this agreement has many weak points .
the american law is not changing it is not passing through congress .
european citizens residing in the united states of america are discriminated against because of such an agreement .
"yet , they then present us with the crucial issue concerning the role of europol ."
"it must , however , be stated clearly that europol is not charged with the protection of data ."
europol is an agency which must be controlled because it benefits from this agreement .
we know that this is wrong we know that it is both illegal and unconstitutional .
this is a problem that will come back to haunt us continually in the years to come .
you have created an illegal state and now you are making illegal laws !
look at the way that this was done .
"under the act , such information cannot be shared without the consent of the individuals concerned ."
the usa cannot be trusted to observe other nationsrights .
they have no right to share it with the usa or anybody else .
britain's representative on the council appears to have overridden existing national law in order to reach this agreement .
by what right ?
"however , we all know that the totally undemocratic and illegitimate eu legislation takes precedence over national democratic law !"
"this is just the latest example of how the eu is creating an undemocratic , illegitimate political state ."
the uk independence party will vote against .
cooperation on the fight against terrorism is extremely important to me and also to my party .
the global jihad poses an increasing threat to the world .
the fight against western values derives financing and ideological encouragement from the middle east .
let us be very clear about this .
"an impenetrable , indefinable stench of an aeroplane that had flown into a building hung in the air ."
it was a terrible stench the stench of terrorism .
"with this agreement , we have done just this ."
we have shown that privacy and security do not need to be played off against each other .
we have shown that we can have them both .
we have shown that we can strike a fair balance .
this is not a zero sum game .
i believe that this is precisely the kind of balance that our law abiding citizens expect from us .
"de mr president , a preliminary remark ."
"to accept or to reject , either decision is worthy of respect ."
more objectivity and less emotion would surely have been fitting .
we in parliament are convinced that this important function must be regulated in agreement with all institutions .
"to reiterate , intra european transfers are not affected ."
"nonetheless , not everything was achieved ."
"for example , europol ."
"mr president , I will vote in favour , but with great reluctance and hesitation ."
this agreement has serious shortcomings which leave it open to legal challenge .
concluding international agreements that are not legally watertight is a risky strategy .
"this agreement is therefore no reason for jubilation , but it is the least bad option ."
why ?
putting an end to the bulk data transfer in the longer term is major progress that we should recognise .
"fr mr president , I would like to thank mrs int veld for her speech ."
the european and national data protection supervisors are all in agreement on these essential points .
applause 
"for they say , quite tersely , that narrowing it down to single individuals is currently not technically possible ."
an increase in data protection is thus nowhere in sight in this agreement .
let us also respect those not in agreement .
transatlantic security surrounded by democratic guarantees is essential for short circuiting the financing of terror .
the commission has an essential role to play in promoting this .
i believe that the agreement is useful .
my public law professor used to say that the best agreement is one which shall have to be improved .
the voice of the european parliament is making itself heard negotiations have taken place .
this agreement is both different and better than the one which we rejected in february .
"having said this , I would like to make it clear that I still have doubts about article I do not seriously believe that we can reject this agreement ."
cs I reject the arguments put forward by the opponents .
hu I will indeed keep this one short .
it is vital for us to accept this in july as it will be the key to security .
"it is also important , for data protection reasons , that data are not transferred without any control ."
"from now on , the legal remedies offered will be transparent ."
i would like to thank mr alvaro and mrs malmström for at least trying to bring this about .
"we said no bulk data , and yet we will have bulk data for at least three years ."
"no , unfortunately , the protection of human rights in this agreement is as naked as the famous emperor ."
"de mr president , ladies and gentlemen , our debate must focus on two aspects ."
"one aspect , namely that of data protection , has now been very frequently addressed ."
"i doubt it profoundly , and there has been no evaluation and nothing to support it ."
"in my opinion , the changes that were made to this agreement are not entirely convincing ."
we talked about how eu officials in washington would be able to influence the selection of data for processing .
we also said that an independent court could change a decision .
"however , my opposition to this treaty is not limited to its content ."
hu I would like to thank mrs malmström and mr alvaro for the report .
the new version of the agreement provides better protection of european citizensrights .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this has been an impassioned debate ."
we must keep a close eye on this balance .
this is an evolutionary process .
these are all positive steps .
"a system of our own has been proposed , and this will be worked on ."
"i hope , therefore , that this agreement will now receive parliament's consent ."
"member of the commission . mr president , thank you for this debate ."
you may or may not like this agreement .
compromise is the very essence of the community method .
that is simply not true .
"considerable improvements have been made concerning data protection , fundamental rights and integrity ."
"mr president , I believe that we must make a note of two things in connection with this discussion ."
mr garrido has stated that he had underestimated the european parliament .
i believe that we have hereby opened a new era in the sphere of eu lawmaking .
now I turn to my fellow members who have just spoken in opposition .
"with all due respect for your opposition , I expect the same respect for the truth ."
the fact is that we have achieved a medium term solution to how we can prevent bulk data transfer .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place on thursday , 8 july , at 12 00 ."
τhe next item is the vote .
written statements rule 149 
and that is a major victory for europe and for the future of transatlantic relations .
it demonstrated that parliament is a serious interlocutor that can exercise its new powers responsibly and effectively .
this is not a perfect agreement .
this agreement meets the demands expressed by parliament a few months ago .
the contents of this agreement are testament to these new institutional relations .
"our concerns have been heard , and reasonable answers have been found ."
the re hashed swift agreement does very little to change this situation .
the data will be arbitrarily stored for a full five years .
the executive is therefore monitoring itself is this seriously supposed to be an independent control body ?
eu citizens whose rights have been violated have de facto no chance of taking successful legal action .
citizens would first have to cope with the cost of instituting legal proceedings in the united states !
what was first celebrated as a success for the european parliament in february has now become a washout .
even the rapporteur admits that he is not totally satisfied .
"it does not provide any real , effective data protection and should therefore be rejected ."
many questions remain open and in need of answers .
thank you .
accession of the member states to the convention relating to international exhibitions signed at paris on 22 november 1928 
participation by switzerland and liechtenstein in frontex activities 
request for defence of mr valdemar tomaševski's parliamentary immunity 
quality of statistical data in the context of the excessive deficit procedure 
eurostat's independence must be strengthened and its dependence on data from the member states reduced .
what does the european parliament want in addition ?
sanctions against member states which falsify statistics and supply false statistics .
the commission must present parliament with a comprehensive report on the mistakes of the last six years .
we must carry on further along this road .
applause 
the european union strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of macro regions in the future cohesion policy 
rights of passengers in bus and coach transport 
rights of passengers when travelling by sea and inland waterway 
intelligent transport systems in the field of road transport and interfaces with other transport modes 
reporting formalities for ships arriving in or departing from ports 
a sustainable future for transport 
annual report of the petitions committee 2009 
"promoting youth access to the labour market , strengthening trainee , internship and apprenticeship status "
i am sure the house would wish to join in welcoming them .
applause 
"atypical contracts , secured professional paths and new forms of social dialogue "
commission green paper on the management of bio waste in the european union 
that concludes the vote .
voting time
we shall now proceed to the vote .
explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
we had the hubris of the boom years when we pretended that greek and german debt were interchangeable .
now we have the nemesis of the overdue market correction .
but the catharsis has been artificially stayed .
"thus we see the true purpose of the european union , namely , the employment of its own employees ."
this would meet our goal .
"it mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I supported this resolution ."
lt I voted for this document and am delighted that it has been adopted .
this is particularly the case with environmental matters .
"lv I refer , therefore , to the strategy for the baltic sea region ."
aid for these states must be regarded as the absolute priority of european union regional policy .
regional policy must continue to support those european regions with a gdp lower than the average european union indicators .
the position that elastic financing must continue to be developed should be supported .
thank you .
"mr hannan , please continue dazzling us with your knowledge of the greek classics ."
these guys in efta are twice as rich as the citizens of the eu member states !
why is that ?
surely we could do just as well running our own affairs in our own interest ?
sk I fully support mr cancian's report on passenger rights in bus and coach transport .
equal access to transport is one of the fundamental preconditions for an independent life .
securing these rights will make a fundamental difference to the lives of our blind and partially sighted fellow citizens .
"this will allow physically disabled people to travel independently around europe , improving their quality of life ."
i am particularly concerned about the area of rural transport .
we always talk in this parliament about overburdening smes and about costs and so on .
maritime goods transport is indeed subject to very complex administrative procedures .
a precise and detailed directive which reduces the possibility of different interpretations as much as possible is therefore necessary .
"to this end , I hope for a good level of cooperation between the various competent authorities involved ."
i think it is very important to ensure that the same rules can apply all over the european union .
"lv thank you , mr president ."
that is why I supported this report .
thank you .
"mr president , the committee on petitions is one of the great successes of the european union ."
"delays in answering frustrate the process , and this does not lead to a satisfactory situation ."
mea culpa . I take the lesson .
enough with the apprenticeships and internships which bear more resemblance to exploitation than to a training period .
"it is not , however , enough on its own ."
"instead , we need very practical action ."
lt youth unemployment is a particularly acute problem today .
20 % of people my age are unemployed in the european union .
then there are the objectives of the european union's eu 2020 strategy .
i hope that there will be close cooperation between the member states so that we can achieve such results .
"the adoption of this resolution , mr president , is the basis for a new level of employment security ."
yes to the europe of knowledge and work and therefore no to the europe of job and social insecurity .
i hope that the commission will reflect on this and will soon propose a text to us .
the situation varies from one eu member state to another .
"therefore , adequate legal regulation is required at european union level ."
"it constitutes a general framework , and I agree with its aims ."
written explanations of vote
"the paris convention regulates the frequency , quality and organisational procedures of international exhibitions ."
this is an issue which I think is very important .
"the paris convention can only be signed by the member states , not by the european union ."
i am very much in favour of a technical measure to facilitate the staging of international exhibitions .
"i voted in favour of this recommendation , with which I wholly agree ."
"nevertheless , it is a good example ."
"at present , 24 member states have integrated this convention ."
i fully agree that countries organising events must allow participants to import goods on a temporary basis .
that is why I voted in favour of the resolution .
thank you .
"the paris convention lays down rules on frequency , quality and procedure for international exhibitions within its remit ."
it also precisely regulates individual countriescustoms regulations for the imported goods .
"in this way , countries are obliged to admit the goods ."
"for exhibitors , this means a considerable simplification of entry procedures ."
"the european union itself cannot accede to the paris convention , as only sovereign states can be parties thereto ."
"the european union itself cannot accede to the paris convention , as only sovereign states can be parties thereto ."
"italy is particularly interested in this text ahead of expo 2015 , which is to be held in milan ."
"however , the eu's role should not be limited to that of a mere contracting party ."
the european union has a particularly important role to play in this common endeavour .
the iczm protocol has already been approved on behalf of the european union .
the council must now obtain parliament's approval before making a decision on the conclusion of the protocol .
the eu has already put its name to many environmental and animal welfare instruments .
"mostly , there is a lack of implementation and monitoring , as with fishing quotas , for example ."
"with this report , the eu would become a full member of the protocol on integrated coastal zone management ."
"eu member states with access to the sea are already iczm members , however ."
"since this comes into conflict with considerations of subsidiarity , I voted against it ."
the iczm protocol sets further objectives including the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of coastal ecosystems .
"it also sets forth several provisions regarding economic activities related to tourism , fishing and aquaculture ."
mediterranean coastal zones continue to experience high pressures on the environment and increased degradation of coastal resources .
"moreover , the mediterranean basin features among the most vulnerable areas as regards the impact of climate change ."
this is why I voted in favour of this report .
"in 2007 , it was decided to incorporate this treaty into the legal framework of the eu ."
i am voting in favour of this agreement between the european union and iceland and norway .
the commission should exert all efforts to end the continuing delays with sis ii .
this situation completely justifies involving these countries more in cross border cooperation in combating terrorism and international crime effectively .
"i am voting against this cross border cooperation agreement between the european union , norway and iceland ."
"once more , the right of opinion is violated under the pretext of security ."
such initiatives need to be taken continuously if terrorist action is to be combated effectively .
the vote on this report calls parliament to express its opinion on the implementation of the work of frontex .
our every effort to strengthen frontex is therefore to be welcomed .
i am opposed to the existence and overall modus operandi of frontex .
"however , the way in which they participate must be defined through agreements with the european union ."
the commission should exert all efforts to end the continuing delays with sis ii .
i also hope that this experience of working together will extend to other areas .
this agency was conceived as an important tool in the common european strategy for combating illegal immigration .
i am voting against this report .
the europe of permanent competitiveness that liberals and social democrats are building for us is merely increasing them .
the frontex agency was created as an important tool for a common european strategy on combating illegal immigration .
its principal role is to coordinate operations between member states relating to the management of its external borders .
thank you .
"in my opinion , the eu's handling of the migration phenomenon truly brings shame on europe ."
the member states are reducing their development aid and preventing developing countries from achieving the millennium development goals .
this has my unconditional support .
"for this reason , I have voted in favour of this impeccable report by mr claeys ."
this agency is conceived as an important instrument of the common european strategy towards illegal immigration .
"we greens did not see many problems there , so we voted in favour ."
"therefore , I am voting for the ep position ."
"furthermore , article 3 states thatmembers shall vote on an individual and personal basis ."
they shall not be bound by any instructions and shall not receive a binding mandate .
agreements concerning the way in which the mandate is to be exercised shall be null and void . 
"this situation is reprehensible , unacceptable and scandalous ."
"the case of our fellow member , mr tomaševski , entails , as it were , two problems ."
"therefore , I decided to endorse the request for defence of the immunity and privileges of valdemar tomaševski ."
the karas report is in line with the european response to the greek crisis .
the european union has learnt a lesson from greece's experience .
the notion of turning eurostat into an audit institution was rejected five years ago .
"however , what is relevant is that the proposal now has every chance of being implemented ."
"accurate , credible statistical data is a prerequisite for the economic and monetary union to operate properly ."
such values should be established as early as possible in relation to the notification period .
this will allow them to assess the state of a country's public finances .
"this report is another step towards monitoring the internal workings of countries , this time through statistics ."
this report advocates absolute respect for the stability and growth pact .
it urges the introduction of unannounced controls on the budgets of the member states .
it builds up suspicion into a political doctrine by demanding that member states who falsify their statistics face sanctions .
the european project cannot allow itself to become confused with this authoritarianism which contradicts the sovereignty of the people .
it goes without saying that this is a scandal .
this kind of thing must never happen again .
only in this way will the stability pact be worth the paper it is written on .
i therefore voted in favour of this report .
"if the previous data is known , there is no need for additional arguments ."
harmonisation of statistical data collection 
standardising of statistical and budgetary information supplied by the member states 
i therefore voted in favour .
i supported this report .
i welcome the report on the european union strategy for the baltic sea region .
the baltic sea strategy is the first attempt to make use of macro regions .
this macro region will not be competing with the member states it will complement them .
"this new form of governance will undeniably bring added value to local , national and european policies ."
the purpose of the strategy is to solve common problems and to concentrate action on achieving shared objectives .
there are two major areas of interest for this region the environment and scientific development .
these are four particularly important steps for lithuania .
the only merit of this report is that it demands the elimination of pollution in the baltic sea .
this elimination is necessary for the preservation of our ecosystem .
it must be carried out as quickly as possible .
"as for its stated desire to establish highly competitive european macro regions , this is completely unacceptable ."
"throughout these regions , they are aiming once again to dismantle the welfare state ."
the remediation of the baltic sea region cannot be carried out in the way advocated by liberalism .
this is an important part of the external relations of the eu and its member states .
the baltic nuclear triangle being created is not just a concern for lithuania but the whole of europe .
"in the eu , it is important to have a macro regional vision of the baltic sea region ."
the eu cannot forbid the construction of nuclear power plants right next to the union's borders .
"however , together we can negotiate with the belarusian government on the location of the construction ."
this report advocates the importance of developing strategies for macro regions in the european union .
these are seen as a set of territories grouped around common objectives and challenges .
in writing . the eu strategy holds enormous potential for us and our neighbours within several policy areas .
optimal results can only be achieved with the pooling of resources towards commonly defined goals .
we also need to address the lack of appropriate infrastructure and accessibility between various transport networks .
the implementation of the strategy has been slow so far .
we need to kick start the process and step up our efforts .
i congratulate the rapporteur on a very well drafted report .
"the document refers to several crucial issues the environment , energy and external affairs ."
"russia , belarus and norway should be involved in this cooperation ."
"interdisciplinary cooperation is needed here , including in the european parliament committees ."
this macro regional strategy for the baltic sea is a pilot project .
"the european institutions , in particular the european commission , should fulfil their role of providing coordination and support ."
"today , all the actors in our regions are affected by the crisis ."
i supported this report .
a properly coordinated eu regional policy may strengthen competitiveness and employment in the eu's regions .
"our smes , which make up 99 % of europe's productive fabric , need freedom from bureaucracy ."
"the european union and its member states are facing a major financial , economic and social crisis ."
these measures can be financed by the payments committee of the european social fund .
i join the rapporteur in emphasising the particular importance of objective this is vital for facilitating the convergence of all the european regions .
this report focuses on the contribution of eu regional policy to resolving the economic crisis .
"the structural funds are essential for investment in areas that contribute to improving productivity , and to economic growth ."
the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy must also be a driving force behind this issue .
"this is a guideline which frames and enhances the eu 2020 strategy for intelligent , sustainable and inclusive growth ."
"cohesion policy , through the structural funds and other actions , is of prime importance ."
territorial cohesion helps boost the competitiveness of the various regions so as to make them as attractive as possible .
it also provides the perfect conditions for entrepreneurship and developing smes .
the aim is to mobilise the resources and tools required for granting financial support at local and regional level .
the positive response to combating the financial and economic crisis has demonstrated the importance of eu regional policy .
i fully welcome this report .
i abstained from voting on the report .
"however , I have my doubts about the fixation on competitiveness that pervades the document ."
this is to be done within the regional policy budgetary framework .
no proper impact assessments have been carried out in this regard .
"they currently overlap one another , resulting in a lack of clarity ."
it is important that these instruments are not solely used as fire fighting interventions .
implementation of cohesion policy programmes should be sped up in order to help these regions at this time .
"however , it seemed preferable to me to abstain on amendment all of this had to do with a vote at second reading ."
"very many bus services in ireland are run by local carriers , small businesses and family businesses ."
rural bus services are vital to rural life .
"passengers should not suffer because of this proposal , either because of more restricted services or higher prices ."
i support this regulation concerning passenger rights in bus and coach transport .
a system must also be established for the treatment of complaints and the payment of damages .
the persistence of varying levels of passenger protection depending on the form of transport being used is unacceptable .
i therefore voted in favour of the report on passenger rights in bus and coach transport .
"the member states unfortunately work hand in glove with the transport operators , and oppose stronger passenger rights ."
"we note that the approved changes also improve on the previous version , by guaranteeing , in particular "
that carriers need to heed the appropriate access conditions for people with disabilities and those with restricted mobility 
these services should also be accessible to people with disabilities 
bus passengers cannot and must not be the only ones not to be protected by a union regulation .
"i voted in favour and I congratulate mr cancian on his report , which I feel is thorough ."
"in most cases , in fact , bus transport is operated by small enterprises ."
i therefore fully support mr cancian's proposal and his very well balanced approach .
"journeys have been considerably democratised in recent years , and we have to be pleased about that ."
i voted in favour of the cancian report concerning the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport .
i am sure that the council has taken note of our determination .
now we go into conciliation .
"therefore , we have voted in favour ."
in writing . the concerns with the report voted are the following 
"in several of the amendments , responsibilities of compliance are addressed to the port authorities ."
i also appreciate the fact that exceptional circumstances were taken into account in this report .
"even if these circumstances remain extraordinary , they can pose serious problems to travellers when they arise ."
"this report also aims to facilitate assistance , retransportation , reimbursement and compensation for passengers in such circumstances ."
all of this had to do with a vote at second reading .
it is crucial that consumers are given effective rights to ensure that liberalisation allows for real choice .
i would like to point out that safety conditions cannot be neglected and made relative in any circumstances .
the complaints system should be accessible and clear to passengers .
combating exclusion is a priority for the eu .
i therefore believe that the rights of passengers with disabilities and reduced mobility should be firmly guaranteed .
in writing . the new rights afforded to passengers on boats and ships are to be welcomed .
this means that there needs to be investment in terminals and ports .
these passengers should also have the opportunity to submit compensation claims .
"in this case , too , it is primarily about accommodating people with particular needs ."
"however , we do not consider european legislation to be the right instrument for protecting passenger rights ."
the netherlands itself is best placed to make tailored policy .
this compelled us to vote against this proposal .
"for these reasons , I voted in favour of the amendments tabled to the council's position ."
"as is the case with the airline industry , passengers deserve to be protected against disruption ."
consumer rights must be protected .
"this legislation is heading in the right direction , giving more rights to passengers travelling by boat or coach ."
passengers on maritime transport will have rights similar to those stipulated in european legislation for aeroplane and train passengers .
i welcome the adoption of the regulation concerning travel by sea and inland waterway .
i hope that an acceptable compromise can be reached in conciliation .
"in order to solve increasing road infrastructure problems , there are proposals to deploy advanced information and communication technologies ."
the effectiveness of using information and communications technology in the sphere of road transport is indisputable .
the correct functioning of the internal market must be ensured .
better public management of infrastructure and transport policy development will also be crucial .
"i voted for this document , because it would accelerate the implementation of intelligent transport system solutions ."
the approval of this draft legislative resolution is an important step towards deploying intelligent transport systems .
"if intelligent traffic systems are actually implemented , they must be interoperable ."
"some thought was also given to mutual recognition and data protection , hence why I am giving my approval ."
in writing . the greens / efa have supported the jensen recommendation onintelligent transport systems.
the agreement with the council was adopted and the directive has been finalised at second reading .
i am pleased that it was adopted with a resounding majority .
this makes maritime goods transport less attractive and means that it is not used to the optimum extent .
"thus , the formalities required by eu legislation should be simplified and harmonised ."
creating a large european transport area without barriers is essential .
in writing . the verts / ale group supported the sterckx report on formalities for ships at seaports .
the agreement with the council was thus adopted and the directive has been finalised at first reading .
the eu airline industry is already in dire straits .
better performance and higher environmental standards are being sought in this report .
"in my opinion , definite targets must be set if significant results are to be achieved ."
the transport sector is very important for trying to establish the european common market .
transport is responsible for 25 % of co2 emissions in europe .
it is crucial to have cleaner vehicles and more efficient transport systems in order to reduce this impact .
"the reality is a bit different , however ."
there is not much evidence of collective ambition .
the transport sector is of great importance in the european internal market .
this sector effectively enables the free movement of people and goods throughout the eu .
i would therefore like to point out that the decarbonisation of transport should be a priority .
"in this context , it is worth noting the possibility of internalising external costs ."
the grosch report is an excellent starting point as we await the european commission white paper .
"the report calls for safer , more efficient transport which causes less pollution ."
"in other words , nothing but very conventional and very obvious things ."
today's vote calls for more joined up thinking across the whole of europe .
i endorsed the final version of the report .
"instead of making the fund more flexible , we have obtained a fund which has no flexibility at all ."
"i would like to thank the fellow members who voted to reject amendment transport has a multifunctional nature , with direct influences on economic , social and territorial matters ."
i voted for this report because I support the aim of european transport policies .
i am voting against this report .
it also contributes to the development and consolidation of the internal market .
we are as far away as ever from achieving sustainability in transport .
"this report is basically almost a rehash of old , unfulfilled strategies ."
that is why I abstained .
"the european economy , and therefore employment , depends on the sustainable future of transport ."
the verts / ale group voted in favour .
we support the resolution despite the risks posed by overly extremist stances already taken by parliament .
we must balance the need to protect the environment with the current economic crisis we are experiencing .
we look positively on the heavy emphasis on safety .
this report will affect a forthcoming green paper on an integrated transport policy .
"i voted against the report , as it advocates the total liberalisation of transport policy ."
"unfortunately , however , the finances allocated to this sector are inadequate ."
"this is why I voted against amendment however , the effects of the financial crisis on the transport sector should not be overlooked ."
"there is more to transport than merely trucks , traffic and tariffs ."
it also boosts employment .
i was pleased to hear the results of today's vote .
"the grosch report has proposed the achievement of unusually ambitious objectives by 20i could not , however , agree with one of the rapporteur's proposals ."
i have doubts about the proposal to create a transport fund .
parliament is directly elected by the public .
this allows an assessment to be made of the impact of european legislation on the everyday lives of citizens .
i believe that it is vital to create incentives for greater participation .
it is clear that european legislation has a direct impact on the public .
"through its committee on petitions , parliament investigates and seeks to resolve any infringements ."
i voted in favour of the annual report by the committee on petitions .
"thus , the outcome could have been better ."
this is therefore an instrument of democracy and citizenship .
i do have one small regret that french citizens make very little use of this procedure .
"according to the report , 46 % of submitted petitions in 2009 were deemed inadmissible ."
this is far too high a number .
petitions are important because they give the european parliament a means to connect with its constituencies and vice versa .
these objectives must be maintained through sustained efforts from both member states and the european commission .
this own initiative report aimed to identify the current difficulties and to propose some solutions .
"as I am completely in agreement with these objectives , I voted in favour of this report ."
"of course , this is not just a question of affirming these objectives loudly and clearly ."
my amendments to the text were inserted in this vein .
"in actual figures , this means that nearly 6 million young people are currently unemployed ."
the only possible outcome from this is a needless long term burden shouldered by european and national budgets .
it is up to member states to invest in job creation at political and economic level .
other social and economic risks and costs to our societies are associated with this pre eminent problem of youth unemployment .
i feel that we cannot be resigned to losing young europeans to social exclusion .
our youth could become a lost generation with the current crisis .
it is unacceptable that some member states are planning a lower minimum wage for young people .
"the economic crisis has , of course , also resulted in higher unemployment in the european union ."
the impact of this has been heaviest on young people and persons approaching the age of retirement .
unemployment among young people is a huge problem .
"mrs turunen's report is the first step , and I fully support it ."
youth unemployment is one of the most pressing problems facing europe .
"at the same time , the eu must be united when it comes to common strategies ."
"a coherent combination of educational , financial , social and employment policies is required ."
that is why we abstained .
people under 25 are the first to be affected by the current economic crisis .
it is certainly important to tighten the regulations on internships .
the representatives of the german free democratic party in the european parliament have supported this .
this is an unsustainable situation .
internships should not destroy jobs .
we believe that this gives a wrong message .
"it should still be possible to do a three month unpaid internship , for example ."
"there are numerous non profit making or social organisations where a young person can acquire exciting , interesting experiences ."
"however , such organisations are often unable to pay any remuneration for the internship ."
the key factor should be the duration of an internship .
"from then on , remuneration should also be paid ."
the decision made today is impracticable and goes too far .
we therefore do not support this part of the resolution .
young people should not remain unemployed more than four months this is a statement with which I agree .
that is why I voted for this report .
youth unemployment is one of europe's most pressing problems .
all member states must take action and fight youth unemployment by taking national specificities into account .
"we must ensure growth and create new jobs , especially for young people and prioritise business education provider cooperation ."
i voted today for the own initiative report on combating youth unemployment .
"by adopting this report , we have decided to take strong action against the abuse of internships ."
the commission and member states were asked by parliament to recommend minimum standards for internships .
a european quality charter on internships is to be proposed .
i am therefore in favour of promoting the status of internships .
this sends out a clear signal to our young europeans .
we often say that young people are the future of europe .
it is awful that the youth unemployment rate is double the average european rate .
"unfortunately , the outlook is not promising either ."
unemployment among young people is one of europe's most pressing problems .
that is why I voted as I did .
it is mainly young people and women who are affected by unemployment .
this trend continues to grow during the recession .
the actual process of getting on the job ladder is becoming increasingly difficult .
insecure jobs mean that we should not be surprised at low birth rates .
"let us try , with the council and the commission , to guarantee young people a decent wage ."
the crisis has hit hardest at those who are just entering the labour market .
i have no doubt that unemployment among young people is currently one of the eu's biggest problems .
"even if young people do find work , they are very often only given temporary contracts ."
internships are also the cause of much emotion .
the european union must have common strategies .
this specific paragraph for the whole of europe has been added at a particularly difficult time for young people .
"in an ideal world , youth unemployment would be outlawed ."
"since 2000 , youth unemployment in brussels has never fallen below 30 % ."
that is the thrust of the turunen report .
it sketches new ways to curb youth unemployment .
this is because we always remember our first salary .
we must also ensure that these are of good quality .
the report was adopted with a large majority in favour .
it is fundamental for the europe of the future to guarantee full and secure employment for young people .
europe must have the courage to invest in those businesses which do not relocate but create jobs .
vocational training is indispensable .
we have voted in favour of the report .
this is almost double the average unemployment rate .
there should be a quality charter to ensure that apprenticeships provide a reasonable income and are of limited duration .
addressing this is an important task for responsible politicians .
"with 21.4 % of young europeans under 25 unemployed , it is definitely time to take action ."
"in lithuania , last year , every eleventh young person was unemployed compared to every twenty fourth in 200we need to boost youth employability by helping adapt educational skills to labour market needs ."
"support measures such as quality internships , apprenticeships and traineeships can aid a smooth transition from education to employment ."
"for lithuania , it is vital to prevent an increasing brain drain of skilled labour ."
"i voted in favour of the gruny report , whose aim is to launch a vast european employment initiative ."
my contribution was based along two lines .
"firstly , the importance of the link between training courses and the needs of the labour market ."
it also promotes the view thatself employmentis the type of work that should be promoted .
i am voting in favour of the bulk of the measures proposed in this report .
these have a greater impact on young people and women .
the first relates to the need for increased investment in skills and professional and lifelong training .
these workers are often denied important rights including the right to training or to join a trade union .
the crisis should not serve as a pretext for the development of more precarious employment .
all workers should have access to equal treatment regardless of their employment contract .
i fully support the report and I will vote in favour of its adoption .
inflexible models of labour law have proven to have failed .
"society has evolved , the world has changed , and labour relations must necessarily accompany this change ."
more than a fifth of european workers change their job every year .
"a set of basic rights for all employees should be secured , regardless of employment status ."
i still advocate the urgent extension of protection to work undertaken in atypical forms of employment .
"the eu cannot abandon its european social model , but should rather strengthen it ."
"many of the report's articles are an example of this , namely , when it says that it "
unemployed people and workers must not expect a welcome from brussels quite the opposite !
the crisis must not serve as a pretext for the development of casual work .
"all employees must be protected by labour law , whatever form their contract takes ."
today's labour market and its associated employment relationships are characterised by one word flexicurity .
i therefore support mrs gruny's report .
i today voted in favour of the gruny own initiative report on atypical employment contracts in the eu .
this allows us to send out two clear messages to the labour market .
atypical employment contracts must remain the exception in europe .
"the transition must be made to stable , protected , better quality employment contracts ."
the fast pace of structural change necessitates more flexible forms of working .
the abuse of atypical employment breaches the european social model .
dialogue and collective negotiation can contribute greatly to improving and preserving the labour market .
"the report adopts well defined guidelines and specific measures for safeguarding jobs , ensuring high quality employment throughout europe ."
"the european union is facing a major financial , economic and social crisis ."
in writing . the report as adopted in committee has been adopted in plenary .
the text is not damaging but relatively weak .
"there was , unfortunately , no chance to secure a majority for it ."
the incidence of atypical employment contracts is increasing significantly in the european union .
the analysis presented in the gruny report is therefore good and to be welcomed .
we therefore go further in our alternative resolution .
there must not be two classes of employment contract .
"that resolution did not make it , and parliament passed up an opportunity to construct a stronger social europe ."
"action is certainly desirable , therefore , and so I welcome the position of the whole european parliament ."
this is important .
"nevertheless , I believe that the eu should not involve itself in the forms of employment ."
this is a matter that must instead be dealt with at a national level .
"in my home country , collective agreements to deal with these matters are negotiated by autonomous parties ."
increasing resource efficiency in europe is among the priority objectives of the eu 2020 strategy .
allow me to give you one example of this .
biogas is a precious resource used to produce electricity and fuel for transport and for supplying the gas network .
bio waste has a role to play in a more global matter the fight against climate change .
"we must therefore totally separate bio waste from standard waste , which is the worst solution in the long term ."
"instead , we should use it for composting or for producing bioenergy , as the report strongly emphasises ."
"finally , there is a great diversity between the member states in terms of the current management of bio waste ."
"in order to manage bio waste effectively , the priority should be waste prevention or reduction ."
"to achieve this objective , citizens themselves need to be involved ."
effective bio waste management can contribute to the eu target of at least 20 % renewable energy by 20selective collection and recycling of bio waste is essential to europe's sustainable development .
the new legislation should stipulate the requirement for a system of selective bio waste collection and recycling .
treatment of waste is a problem that affects europe and all of humanity .
"firstly , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur , mr fernandes , for his excellent work ."
current legislation in terms of bio waste does not answer the requirements of the material's regulation .
efficient management of bio waste not only brings environmental benefits but also contributes positively to the social and economic spheres .
i am therefore voting in favour of this report's proposals .
ever greater areas are experiencing irreparable soil degradation here .
"globally , bio waste is most often put in landfills and only a tiny percentage is sorted and reprocessed ."
europeans now understand the need to sort waste .
"however , bio waste almost always ends up in landfills ."
"the report deals with the issue adequately , and I will vote in favour of its adoption ."
it is estimated that the amount of bio waste produced in the eu every year is around 100 million tonnes .
our position is ambitious and realistic .
"although we broadly agree with these principles , we cannot , however , neglect to point out some problems ."
the question unanswered in the report is who will pay ?
reduction is one of the best ways of combating problems related to waste .
"as regards composting , it is not enough to say that we need to do it ."
"the satisfactory management of bio waste would therefore have not only environmental advantages , but also economic ones ."
action must be taken at the eu level and today's vote should ensure that progress is made .
this report takes the right approach .
i welcome this .
i will therefore abstain .
bio waste can also be reused to produce bio energy and biofuels .
the recycling industry currently creates around 250 jobs for each 10 000 tonnes of waste recycled .
one strategic objective of waste management policy is to transform the eu into a recycling society .
this means that sustainable development can be promoted through efficient resource management .
in writing . the draft report already contained the most relevant issues for us greens .
this was included in the recitals of the text adopted in committee .
we are in favour of the commission's green paper on the management of bio waste .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
"economic governance in the eu and the eurozone , and surveillance of national budgets debate "
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , economic governance constitutes a crucial challenge for the future of our union ."
commissioner olli rehn then discussed this with you during his hearing .
"unfortunately , the crisis has shown that we were right ."
"as a result , the commission provided detailed proposals on 12 may ."
these proposals do not involve changing the treaty .
"we must act now , within the legal context that we have today ."
this is not a limitation .
"our citizens , our businesses and our economy are demanding that we take initiatives ."
it is our responsibility to decide and to act now .
"because of the economic crisis , the european union has been faced with a series of serious tests ."
"as I said this morning , a deal is within reach in the coming days ."
our response to the crisis is a holistic one .
"we stabilise , we consolidate and we modernise ."
we prepare our social market economy to ensure a better future for our citizens .
"but for now , let me focus on governance ."
we have the treaty provisions in place which allow us to act .
we have the institutions .
we need to make it work .
we faced a real risk and we successfully resisted it .
now we are filling in the gaps we have identified to pre empt such risks for the future .
i first announced to parliament the ideas we fleshed out in the commission communication of 12 may .
our debates since then are reflected in the commission communication of 30 june .
this work has helped to build a real european momentum .
i hope that this will translate later into a swift consideration and swift adoption of legislative proposals .
our approach to economic governance is to have rules that are more comprehensive and more efficient .
we need a stronger surveillance regime .
what does this mean in detail ?
"first , we need more coordination ."
key to this is theeuropean semester.
"it will enhance economic transparency and encourage peer reviews , ex ante , among member states ."
"second , we need the credibility that comes with better enforcement ."
"this means a refined incentives and sanctions toolbox , a more effective mix of both preventive and corrective action ."
i want to be very clear on this .
parliament can be reassured that the commission will do its utmost to ensure that this will be the case .
the timing of measures is also key .
we must not fall into the trap of waiting too long before sanctions kick in .
incentives and sanctions must be brought upstream so that action is deployed before the situation gets out of hand .
preventive action can be much more effective than corrective action but it requires discipline and political will .
"we are addressing this in our proposals , in particular , as regards the euro area ."
"third , our surveillance needs to capture all the key elements ."
it must not be restricted to fiscal policy alone .
we have seen that such a narrow perspective does not work .
we must have tools to detect macro economic imbalances among member states .
"such imbalances weaken the cohesion of the eu and , in particular , of the euro area ."
a comprehensive scoreboard of indicators will give us what we need to identify increasing divergences and to propose remedies .
"they need , of course , to be complemented by appropriate enforcement mechanisms for such remedies ."
that is what our europe 2020 strategy is all about . the european council endorsed it a fortnight ago .
i would like to underline the historic dimension of the reforms we are putting forward .
this is a strategy for the whole union . this is not just an addition of different strategies .
applause 
"president barroso , commissioner rehn , your proposals are an important step towards strengthening economic governance in europe ."
it also wishes to cooperate on taking the next step towards the community method .
we have great expectations of the european semester and the coordination of national action programmes .
important reforms and painful measures in the member states are necessary in order to strengthen their competitiveness .
this will create jobs and prosperity for our citizens .
you called the series of measures atoolbox.
a great deal will depend on the specific contents of this toolbox .
one of our dutch football teams has the mottodeeds not words.
fiscal stability cannot exist in isolation from strong economic growth and high levels of employment .
"in your proposals of last week , I think you are missing the point ."
you have left out several highly relevant options that would really mean a qualitative leap in this field .
"second , you must come forward with an economic policy agenda for jobs and fiscal consolidation ."
"today , we only have an agenda for cutting deficits at the expense of jobs ."
taxation on labour is far too high in a number of member states .
i hope you will reconsider and come forward with a more balanced set of proposals in the autumn .
the commission has the initiative here .
"nevertheless , mr president , some questions remain concerning this package ."
"the first question , which is fundamental , is who will manage this economic governance ?"
we cannot just say that we will reduce the deficits .
the fourth element is thestress tests.
i am satisfied with the fact that the decision has been taken to publish these .
this is a crucial point .
"furthermore , this element is repeated in the commission's proposals ."
this is the point of departure for the larosière exercise .
the member states have not yet understood .
"mr president , many thanks for making this statement ."
"as far as I see it , we will not make any progress this way ."
it also specifically mentions imbalances .
"until recently , it was still almost impossible to talk about imbalances seriously ."
this obviously means economic governance and also talking about tax issues .
these must stop being taboo subjects and obviously have a place in such a statement .
"secondly , it is not enough to coordinate budget policy only in the way it was described ."
"we must ensure that budget policy is anti cyclical , enabling it therefore to counteract crises ."
"unfortunately , this does not feature in the text ."
"unfortunately , you are still lacking the courage to explain things as clearly as is necessary ."
we have problems with asset prices and bubbles .
this is not mentioned explicitly either .
it is no longer enough now to make progress in this crisis .
"our citizens are expecting holistic , comprehensive solutions , which is no more than they deserve ."
we need to arrive at consensus .
the outcome needs to be fully implemented by all 27 member states and be fully complied with .
the recent financial and economic crisis has necessitated bold measures .
i do not agree with this conclusion .
both the commission and council are calling for further controls and penalties for member states in deficit .
this has not worked in the past and will not work in the future .
regulation of the financial markets is a matter of urgency .
we will do our part to resolve the situation .
europe's citizens already have to pay the council now ought finally to swing into action as well .
"this may stall growth in the euro area , which is still feeble and at risk ."
these countries must make greater efforts to strengthen their domestic markets and boost demand instead .
what is needed is to carry out a fundamental overhaul rather than tighten its conditions .
i think you had an urgent appointment .
"you are in such a pickle actually , are you not ?"
what in fact happened when you introduced it was that you actually tore up your own rule book .
you threw it away !
i am not a johnny come lately to the demise of the euro .
"it was always written in the runes , as it were ."
to suggest now that we have only just found out that greece was broke is intellectually dishonest .
our commercial banks have got themselves into a terrible problem because they buy junk debt .
they redistributed junk debt repackaged at triple a ratings .
what are our central banks doing now ?
the very same thing .
you had promised the convergence and the harmonisation of the european countries .
"today , you are rushing us towards a social and political explosion ."
"errare humanum est , perseverare diabolicum to err is human , to persist is of the devil ."
"first of all , to corien wortmann kool , thank you for your support ."
that is precisely our goal with youth 20so our proposal is not only about prudence in macro economic aspects .
that is why I also do not agree with the idea that our approach is not balanced .
we will come with formal proposals .
what is going on is a very important reform .
but we also want to include in this holistic approach macro economic surveillance with tif .
it is not only about sanctions for those who do not fulfil the criteria of depth and the deficit .
we will also try to reinforce coordination in terms of the macro economic imbalances .
we need this since our whole reform is based on this new architecture .
"in the last few days , a new belgian presidency has renewed momentum towards a deal ."
there is a predominant sense of constructive pragmatism on both sides .
i am grateful for the ambition parliament has been demonstrating .
i am grateful for your strong support .
i believe it now appears within grasp .
the commission has contributed through various compromise texts and is very pleased that progress is being made .
we now call on both colegislators to maintain the positive dynamic .
president obama said in the g20 that he got a bipartisan agreement .
"great , and we welcome that ."
that could only enhance the role of europe in this matter .
"finally , some of you spoke about stress testing ."
"at the last european council , I made a strong plea to make the results public ."
a fully transparent stress test provides the opportunity to do so .
"so , as you see , we are acting on several fronts ."
i believe that the stability of the euro is in the interest of all our citizens .
applause 
"president barroso , thank you for your approach and for your cooperation with the european parliament ."
the debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
in writing . I welcome the proposals made by the commission .
europe is about mutual and close interdependency .
"however , control mechanisms are not a solution but just a means ."
they should not be overestimated .
"the solution is in more efficient work , entrepreneurship and innovation ."
the key to the solution is prevention .
special attention should be paid to budgetary frameworks and the state debts .
"instead of breaking financial control into smaller clusters , monitoring of the macro economic situation as a whole is needed ."
the new dual system of incentives and sanctions deserves support .
i also encourage making better use of eurostat .
reliable and timely data is a crucial component to making the right decisions .
i should like to draw fellow membersattention to the problem of national budgeting .
this is all the result of illogical and unclear tax legislation .
"in individual cases , tax authority personnel can apply thisturbidlegislation in any way they choose ."
this has led to the bankruptcy of many businesses and commercial structures .
what is happening in the tax sphere in latvia today can be described in one word illegality !
"in essence , the state is depriving entrepreneurs of their liquid funds ."
the next item is the joint debate on the following 
"rapporteur . mr president , at the origin of this financial crisis are the national supervisors ."
"at this stage , and with the huge crisis we are suffering , there are only two possibilities ."
the president of the ecb will also be the chair of the esrb and represent the esrb externally .
the uk splits the main financial regulator and gives more power and more clout to the bank of england .
mr osborne said that it had failed to prevent the crisis because no one knew who was in charge .
"to close my speech , this is not time for a debate on a second order reform ."
applause 
the trialogues began the following day .
"when including this item in this plenary sitting , we had anticipated completing the negotiating process by this date ."
"as colegislators , we need to continue making an effort , as this agreement is still possible ."
this leaves some leeway for reaching a compromise at a first reading within the next few weeks .
"it is not a case , therefore , of a regular , generalised review ."
the commission has been given the necessary powers to ensure its adoption within the anticipated timeframe .
all competences and powers have been incorporated into the sectoral legislation .
i hope that the negotiations on this directive can be brought to a satisfactory conclusion .
"parliament has the following message , which is supported by a large , overall majority ."
"since then , we have had a wide ranging discussion about many issues ."
they also would have expected these authorities to be granted strong investor and consumer protection rights .
this is the decision we have come to now in parliament .
"there also seems , fortunately , to be a broad consensus that this step is necessary ."
the regulation of derivatives will create new european market infrastructures .
we also insisted in parliament on the new authorities receiving rights allowing them to ban risky financial products .
then we have the long debate about direct decision rights .
this was another case where we had to fight against the suggestions being watered down .
"the key point remains if a real financial crisis breaks out , who declares the emergency ?"
will the council ever do this ?
it is insisting that the fox should be put in charge of the henhouse .
"this does not make any sense , a fact which the commission has also continually pointed out ."
"so far , the council appears inflexible ."
it must be a case of large sums being allocated by means of a decision at european level .
it is now over to the council .
"since then , the commission has done its work ."
it commissioned a report from jacques de larosière .
"first , there are the issues concerning efficiency ."
we do not need a safeguard clause .
"on this question , I would nevertheless like to make a comment ."
who do the member states want to protect themselves from when they plan safeguard clauses against europe ?
all of that is grotesque .
"we also want these authorities to be located in a single place , for reasons of efficiency ."
"on this matter , we have also made some requests ."
we have also asked for greater openness from these bodies .
i would like to say one final word relating to the united states .
i am always shocked when people tell us that the americans have pulled ahead .
i also notice that a number of governments are having discussions in two stages .
"first , we refuse any federal state ."
we refuse any new stage of integration and we decry the community method .
"then , later , we always compare ourselves to the united states ."
there comes a time when we have to abide by our responsibilities .
i want a stronger europe .
"madam president , cassandra had a gift that of telling the future ."
she also bore a curse that of not being listened to .
"for this reason , troy fell ."
they can only be supervised by european authorities .
"we did not take heed of this , and the crisis erupted ."
"exotic products , unknown even to their creators , flooded the markets ."
"nobody trusted anybody else , nobody lent to anybody else , and credit dried up ."
now what ?
we in parliament have been at odds with the council for some days now .
parliament has given a great deal of ground in order to reach an agreement the commission too .
the belgian presidency has shown great willing .
it has asked us for time .
there are several ideas that parliament would like to highlight .
what does it mean to say that they are european ?
national supervisors cannot be feudal lords invested with absolute power .
this governs everything except systemic institutions .
"lifeboats should be made ready before the voyage , not in the middle of a storm ."
what cannot happen is for the taxpayer to have to carry the can again .
the council has asked for time .
parliament has given it time .
"let nobody be confused , however this is not a sign of weakness ."
this is a sign of the strength of this house .
it must not make use of this time to try and put together blocking minorities in opposition to parliament .
i ask the council to listen to cassandra for once .
"today , cassandra is the rapporteurs who have spoken ."
cassandra is also commissioner barnier .
those who are not cassandra know only too well to whom I refer .
"listen to parliament , seek an agreement , say here what was said in toronto ."
do not say one thing here and another there .
god and this house .
it remains the most comprehensive piece of sectoral financial services legislation voted on in this parliament .
"as such , solvency ii is intimately linked with the proposals for eiopa ."
"eiopa , in my opinion , provides the oil that will allow solvency ii to operate more effectively ."
it is perhaps because of my experience with solvency ii that I was keen to take on this report .
i knew that it was the context in which we could make solvency ii really work .
insurance is not banking and I am glad that my fellow rapporteurs have accepted that .
they will not be different but they will be balanced .
this is a real gain for parliament .
"for pensions , the question is up in the air ."
we need to attribute wider powers of intervention to the supervisors .
we need to prepare contingency plans .
this entire process takes time for 27 member states .
"however , around 50 of the 12 000 banks operating europe represent 70 % of assets ."
"this means an enormous concentration of risk , but also an opportunity to intervene primarily in them ."
"as you well know , the latest trialogue actually took place yesterday evening ."
"should the chair of the esrb be elected , or should he or she be automatically the ecb president ?"
should the president of the efc participate in the work of the esrb ?
"there again , an agreement is not far away ."
i count on your support on these very important endeavours .
"there are many subjects which are part of this architecture of prevention , crisis management and supervision ."
there is also financial corporate governance and banking capital .
i will come back to this when talking about mr karasreport .
i would like to say a few words on the two subjects for today .
"first , I will address supervision , which is effectively the backbone ."
we need this credible european architecture of supervision .
we find here the spirit and the philosophy of the commission's proposals .
"i am thinking of the reinforcement of the joint committee , as advocated by mr skinner ."
these are only a few examples the most difficult things still lie ahead of us .
i want to repeat what mr garcía margallo y marfil said .
we need the council to understand that now is the time to act and to make progress .
others have also said this .
the ball is in its court to use these few days to reach an intelligent and credible agreement .
you can count on me to be available .
i have myself believed in precautionary measures for a long time .
that is the spirit of the toolbox that we will be presenting to the council of ministers .
i make the commitment that a legislative text will be presented to you .
i would like to say that I am speaking as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion .
there have been different approaches adopted at national level .
it is obvious that this cannot work .
what citizens want is for an effective decision to be made to get problems resolved .
the council only takes a narrow minded approach .
the public do not find this policy acceptable .
we expect the council to take action .
"this means he can issue warnings , make recommendations , and all of this in public ."
i really do regard this as an extremely positive move which should be highlighted .
"madam president , commissioners , european supervision of financial markets is the minimum that we can do ."
it will require the regulation of rating agencies .
"as a result , the issue of control has not been resolved the control must be political ."
it is also insufficient if we do not take real measures against the flight of capital to tax havens .
"a regulation at the european level is useful , but insufficient ."
we must have global supervision of financial markets .
we cannot simply allow things to carry on in this dysfunctional and incoherent manner .
"equally , the new european framework must radically improve both the quality and coherence of regulatory supervision ."
our member states are right to resist such a move .
the uk and germany are right to adopt the positions that they have .
let us now begin the debate with the political group speakers .
the problem has already been explained .
we are dealing with markets which operate globally nowadays .
member states still believe that they can use their national supervisory structures to apply rules in this environment .
this is the task to which we have committed ourselves as the european parliament .
"as is well known , the european parliament is not an army of extremists making revolutionary demands ."
"our proposals are those of de larosière , not robespierre , as the fine commissioner barnier knows ."
"friends in the council , even if you are not here , you will read our words ."
"dear friends in the council , do not bury your heads in the sand like ostriches ."
"reality is tough , but it must be faced with choices of courage and strength ."
this is challenging but it is a serious omission from the whole concept of the single market .
it is simply asking for european supervision for european actors and national supervision for national actors .
"if they are toxic , why authorise them ?"
it is obviously asking for binding actions .
all of this does not seem to me to amount to extremism .
why can the council not accept that ?
i can think of no other name for that than a political federation .
here lies the essence of the entire debate on financial architecture and the supervision of financial architecture .
we have currency union .
the citizens sitting here and watching us may quite rightly ask so what is your solution ? 
we need to do something without giving you a say . 
"in my opinion , that is the wrong approach ."
all the proposals we have made were strongly watered down in the trialogues .
the council and the governments do not want strong intervention rights .
mr giegold is right when he described what is currently going on asparochial.
we will get a fragmented supervisory structure which will be incapable of exercising proper control over the financial markets .
they are expecting this predatory financial market capitalism to be tamed and the dominance of politics to be restored .
this would be just the first step to a status quo ante .
it is finally time for the grandiose promises to be backed up by actions .
my group supports strong european regulation .
"i wonder , however , whether the road we are about to embark upon is the right one ."
"finally , I am convinced that politics should take more responsibility ."
"de madam president , the european union already has around 40 eu agencies ."
"every year , these organisations gobble up eur 1.5 billion ."
the council and member states have never had any problem making quick fire decisions to establish such agencies .
"most of all , there is frequently no rationale given for these agencies ."
"unfortunately , they often take a ridiculous stance ."
"in this debate on european supervision , parliament has played this role ."
why is this ?
"in these troubled times , the european systemic risk board must get to work as quickly as possible ."
"however , this is only a start ."
the unity of the european single market must also be supervised if we want to avoid its fragmentation .
they are also concentrating more on substance than on a turf war .
standardised derivatives will be traded on established exchanges and forced through clearing houses .
we are discussing how to distribute the powers between european institutions and national institutions .
"well , the solution is quite easy ."
"instead , oversight should begin in our countries ."
"in italy , for example , it happens via a system of local branches which can monitor situations well ."
"furthermore , why should the headquarters of the european agency be in frankfurt ?"
who decided that ?
it should also contribute to the emergence of a single banking market of the union .
i am glad that it appears that we are close to agreement .
"in retrospect , it seems astonishing that we did not have a single eu wide macro prudential body doing just this ."
i am extremely pleased to see how close we are to a final agreement .
"we should all , and the rapporteurs themselves , be very proud ."
"please , next week , keep an open dialogue during the negotiations at ecofin ."
"de madam president , we need more supervision of the financial markets in europe too ."
the economic and financial crisis has made it glaringly and painfully obvious that opportunities were missed in the past .
the european financial supervisory authorities must be provided with extensive powers .
they must not degenerate into empty shells which passively observe market developments .
the council must finally accept the european parliament as a legislator of equal standing .
there has certainly been no lack of preparatory work by the responsible meps .
numerous discussions have taken place and work has been carried out in parliament quickly and purposefully .
we are now waiting for the council to provide clear answers and concrete proposals in writing .
hu the crisis has taught us all some painful lessons .
the new supervisory authorities will serve exactly this purpose .
parliament should also make concessions .
"finally , ecofin should be granted the right to announce an economic crisis ."
"fr madam president , I am happy to find my friend michel barnier in this chamber ."
"i am thinking of international public banking establishments and , in particular , of the european investment bank ."
data which will be collected by those three institutions will be very important and will be partially confidential .
"therefore , it seems to me that our responsibility is clear ."
we must do everything in our power so that this does not happen again .
we need regulation and supervision .
"we need independent , strong authorities in the interest of europeans ."
"what the united states has succeeded in doing , the european union must also do ."
"this is the only way open to us to change things , and this is why we must succeed ."
"however , efforts to create stricter regulation and closer supervision will not , by themselves , prevent potential crises ."
we need more involvement from europe .
the proposal tabled by the commission already provides a minimum scenario .
"we need strong supervision with teeth , a right of intervention and a mediator function ."
we need decisions without further notice in emergencies .
we require banking supervision as part of crisis management .
the safeguard clause is an obstructive instrument and contravenes community solidarity .
we need strong supervision with teeth .
"pl madam president , thank you very much for giving me the floor ."
it is very good that the union is not passive in ensuring financial security .
let us remember to link the responsibility of the union to the responsibility of all member states .
these intervention rights are restricted to absolutely exceptional cases and will hopefully never be used .
we want to keep systemic risks permanently to a minimum .
"for the sake of taxpayers , we need more involvement from europe , not less ."
"if they fail to perform , they have somebody to answer to ."
that is a key message .
i would like to conclude by saying that I have no problem with institutions being based in frankfurt .
"after all , germany has been a better model of financial propriety than many others ."
the problem is that we ignore asset inflation .
i will report all those matters to him which may concern him directly .
mrs bowles reminded us of the need for early intervention measures .
i think that these are good ideas .
we are indeed carrying out this reform for the citizens .
this is very much a reform for the citizens .
"mrs lulling mentioned a point which is of interest to my colleague , olli rehn ."
"mr klinz , I would like to thank you for the support that you are showing us ."
you reminded us of the importance of applying our rules properly .
"that must be embarked upon , mr giegold , well before we talk about a ban ."
i could imagine an important coordinating role for the authorities in this area .
the council also accepted that the authorities may have such a role .
mr baldassarre mentioned a worry that mr lehne also has concerning the powers of the authorities .
this has to do with the transatlantic calibration that I sometimes mention .
i am not worried about the energetic interaction between americans and europeans .
"at the moment , 80 % of financial exchanges take place on both sides of the atlantic ."
"the other regions of the world are there , between the americans and the europeans ."
we therefore have the same road map .
"also , the last g20 was something of a follow up g20 , in my view ."
the americans adopted a different method from our own they adopted a global package .
they will now need to open the drawers one by one to implement these decisions .
i think that there are real parallels between the americans and the europeans .
"we are not always using the same tools , and we will not always use the same methods ."
our banking sectors are quite dissimilar .
"i would remind you that in europe , the banks finance between two thirds and three quarters of the economy ."
"in the united states , it is the other way around ."
we do not always have the same banking structures .
"on this subject , we are having a confident dialogue with the americans , but one without naivety ."
"that is what I would say in conclusion , and I thank you for your speeches ."
"in my case , I could argue that spain would probably have had a big corralito ."
the euro was created 11 years ago .
i believe that we should make use of the time and reach a speedy agreement .
those who advocated self regulation in the past now need to accept self financing .
"they have done an excellent job , which has not yet borne fruit ."
it is a pity therefore that my fellow members are no longer present .
"however , one thing which is also important to me is this compromise which we are now producing ."
parliament tabled a last minute compromise last week .
it does not work if an inch being given ultimately results in a mile being taken .
this method will fail .
i hope that this signal is also clearly understood by the absent council .
"otherwise , we are all going to find it very uncomfortable next week ."
"mr president , commissioner , I would like to say three things ."
let us be quite clear .
we have made an effort .
this parliament agreed to interrupt the procedure of first reading .
this should not end up as cherry picking .
no .
i cannot mention all of them .
this is our line this is what we believe in for reasons of efficiency .
my second remark has to do with the date .
the date is not a fetish .
we do not want 1 january for its own sake .
it is 1 january with good reason .
we have the advantage that we anticipated things that other institutions said later .
the president cut off the speaker 
"he repliedno , it's much more serious than that."
i would like to thank everybody who has participated in this .
we have converged from different directions but we have come out with a strong parliament voice .
we should be proud .
"on an international level , we should be proud too ."
"however , I do not necessarily agree with you on international financial accounting ."
you will not be surprised to hear that .
i do not agree with using historical trends .
"nevertheless , on supervision , the rapporteurs deserve a pat on the back ."
"we have gone through full time , we are now in extra time ."
let us hope it does not have to go to a penalty shoot out .
i will try to be very brief here in underlining just four points .
"a special mention for the office staff , for susana vravova , and for the services of the committee ."
the joint debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow , wednesday , 7 july 2010 , at 12 00 ."
written statements rule 149 
"the european union has a political , social and moral duty to intervene ."
that duty finds its justification in the values underpinning the union and enshrined in the treaties .
the economy can only function with healthy financial markets dedicated to it .
european financial stability facility and european financial stabilisation mechanism and future actions debate 
"we are the devils that look at the detail , and we want more of it ."
"on 11 may , the european stabilisation mechanism was established utilising the eu budget ."
"a bit more haste would have been useful , and perhaps cheaper ."
can you confirm that the rules of the spv are being changed to permit this ?
there remain many other questions .
how will the coordination between the stabilisation fund and the imf operate ?
is this all the right way around ?
"should the imf be topping up an eu rescue , or should it be the other way round ?"
is the spv active now or must first calls use the eu budget mechanism ?
i would now like to turn to eurobonds .
market forces are not popular right now .
mrs bowles mentioned angels .
i do not know if there are many angels when we talk of financial services .
the first question what amount are we talking about when we talk of this european stabilisation mechanism ?
what is the link with the ceiling on own resources ?
that is the precise response that mr rehn wanted to give to you on this point .
the second question will the commission carry out an impact analysis for these two instruments ?
this report will be transmitted to the economic and financial committee and the council .
"notably , it will include an impact evaluation of the text ."
the third question what is the impact on the financial capacities of the eib ?
it will not lend or borrow on behalf of this mechanism .
no exact choice of legal basis has yet been made .
you have just mentioned the question of the role of the european parliament .
the european parliament will be kept informed of any change regarding all of these new procedures .
the sixth question what is the coordination with the international monetary fund ?
the eighth and final question relates to the choice of legal bases .
this would have been difficult to reconcile with a long procedure involving an important role for some national parliaments .
"however , I wish to say the following on the subject ."
"in our view , the financial stabilisation mechanism is not a substitute for developing a european monetary fund ."
the financial stabilisation mechanism illustrates the urgency of financial market reforms .
"in the meantime , the markets have done their job ."
"our fellow member , othmar karas , spoke of the stability pact ."
"today , we have a mechanism that was put together in an emergency , as you reminded us ."
we did this in an emergency .
one final point I think that in responding to mrs bowles regarding the eib .
the president cut off the speaker 
this is a good course of action .
thank you for your understanding .
we now move on to the speakers in the catch the eye procedure .
"besides , the issue arises concerning the dependency of rating agencies ."
"i find , therefore , that this measure has not been thought through well enough ."
it poses the risk again of member states running up debts at the expense and liability of others .
i believe that this is the crux of stabilisation .
any reduction of this programme would be totally counterproductive .
would you have a suggestion to make on this ?
"i would simply like to ask you a question , commissioner ."
he will do this in writing in the next few days .
i refer you to the quite comprehensive response that president barroso gave on this question .
"however , this is only a tool , mr karas ."
these ideas will also be turned into legislative proposals at the end of 2010 and the start of 20mrs berès mentioned the application of the stability pact .
"like you , I think that we must go further ."
"as you have understood , we introduced this european financial stabilisation mechanism in a time of emergency ."
the commission has also made important proposals relating to budgetary surveillance .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place on wednesday , 7 july 2010 at 12 00 ."
the next item is the joint debate on 
it will force banks to hold more capital against riskier activities on the trading book .
we are constantly told by the banks that they have learned the lessons of the crisis .
"it is therefore imperative that these rules on bonuses apply in 20colleagues , we have a duty , as legislators , to defend the taxpayersinterest ."
we have a duty to respond to the public's concerns .
our voters demand and expect banks to prioritise stability and lending over bankersown pay and bonuses .
"in the last two years , since 2008 , the banks have failed to reform their structures ."
"to begin with , it is important to exercise and expand sound internal and external supervision of remuneration policies ."
the remuneration itself must reflect the company's long term performance as far as possible .
bonuses should not just be guaranteed .
a proportion of variable remuneration should be paid out over a sufficient period .
i think that we can go even further in this matter .
"i would like to thank parliament for its support on these issues , on these tasks ."
"i agree with your observation , mr el khadraoui ."
there must be binding measures on the remuneration policies of financial institutions .
the payment of bonuses to directors of banks receiving state aid is greatly restricted .
i think that that is fair .
i also welcome the fact that these measures must be implemented by the member states from 1 january 20this is one of the key elements of a more robust and more stable regulatory framework .
i have begun this task .
i recently put forward an international agenda for a financial regulation for growth .
"this is one of the requests made in your report , mr el khadraoui ."
we shall open a two month period of genuine consultation on all these issues .
"thirdly , there is the matter of the modernisation of capital treatment ."
i have just referred to crd 3 and the issue of remuneration .
i am very aware of this risk .
i am aware that these negotiations on crd 3 have sometimes been very difficult .
"madam president , ladies and gentlemen , the council is again absent ."
"during the negotiations , the council came out on the side of the bonus recipients ."
the european parliament is in favour of clear european regulations .
we are in favour of maximum limits .
we are in favour of payment methods involving less risk .
we are in favour of liability .
we are in favour of restrictions on bonuses for managers of banks supported with public funds .
we do not want cash amounts to be higher than the tied up capital .
we have managed to get our way with splitting the timetable .
it is also important that we have adapted the trading book and banking book .
we support this compromise as it takes us further in the right direction .
"on the other hand , there have been very few specific measures ."
it is therefore a positive move that we are now establishing legislation that is both clear and practicable .
this legislation will most likely reduce the short sighted and exaggerated risk taking in the financial sector .
that will reduce the risk level and increase stability .
it is too risky for society to largely accept the status quo .
"yes , I mean up there alongside the supervisory architecture ."
"under capitalised trading books were a fundamental cause of the crisis , making speculative proprietary trading attractive and almost cost free ."
"madam president , commissioner , my political group is particularly delighted that this directive has been adopted ."
it is a directive which arguably contains the most ambitious rules in the world on remuneration factors .
"i must say , commissioner , that the commission has largely been on our side in this struggle ."
"therefore , I think that this is an achievement which we can share ."
"now , there is an important issue at stake ."
"as we lost , we have had to make compromises ."
we have here a regulation which is unique on a global scale .
"after all , any managers who are successful and responsible also want to continue making a good living ."
"this is a fundamental change towards greater sustainability and cost efficiency , and hopefully away from gambling ."
thank you to all fellow members for their cooperation on this report .
it is clear that we need principles that promote and create guidelines for a sound remuneration policy .
"at the same time , we must avoid broad generalisations and blaming the sector as a whole ."
"in the end , we succeeded in achieving a relatively balanced result ."
"de madam president , mr karas has already mentioned some key points ."
i fully concur with him on them .
i think that we need better capital requirements for financial institutions in both qualitative and quantitative terms .
"one thing is therefore certain , namely that the basel rules need to be developed further ."
"however , it does not help to force the situation as this could have totally the opposite effect ."
the financial crisis is obviously a global crisis .
the lessons we need to draw from it must therefore be drawn at a global level as well .
"this means that if we tighten capital requirements , we must coordinate this measure internationally too ."
the level playing field must be retained .
"for example , texts and annexes must remain consistent ."
calculation examples in the annex must also match the wording .
"however , the future supervisory authority will be responsible for the interpretation ."
there is one other thing we should not forget .
the financial economy and the real economy are not two self contained systems .
capital requirement regulations have an impact on the real economy .
"however , at the moment we do not know exactly what this will be ."
it will not be that easy to put an end to this .
the attempt to make management executives more accountable with retentions was thwarted by new insurance policies .
the eu draft should draw a lesson from this .
the factors determining the bonuses must definitely be transparent .
"madam president , I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the commission ."
we only know about the excesses of the banking sector because of the disasters that have happened .
transparency is the key to all of this .
"when people have knowledge of what is happening , then we can take action on it ."
clear rules have been implemented which cannot be interpreted in different ways .
this is the aim of the debates we are having with the council at this very moment .
"this includes , mr canfin , decisions on rules relating to remuneration ."
i should now like to say a few words about the application of these new rules .
they must apply to all investment banking firms .
"mr christensen , you stressed the need for transparency ."
"mrs bowles mentioned the central issue of capitalisation , as did mr balz a short while ago ."
capitalisation is indeed important .
we need to achieve exactly the same objectives .
"they have been set by the gwe must achieve them in parallel , and I shall be careful to ensure that this does indeed happen ."
"i believe , colleagues , that it is the beginning of the process , not the end ."
"therefore , I urge colleagues to give a strong vote to this report in the plenary tomorrow ."
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I too shall keep it brief ."
it cannot be the end of the story .
it is clear that there is still work to be done .
"supervisors must be strengthened so as to enable external monitoring , too , of companiesremuneration policies ."
the role of the shareholders must also be strengthened .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow wednesday , 7 july 2010 ."
question time commission 
the next item is question time b7 0316 / 2010 .
the following questions are addressed to the commission .
part one
the answer isyes.
this implies that their involvement was necessary and in keeping with the nature of jtis as public private partnerships .
the eu staff regulations foresee disciplinary procedures for breaches of this obligation .
"having said that , the regulations establishing the joint technology initiatives cater for smes ."
they contain provisions encouraging and promoting sme participation and representation at governing board level .
let me describe an actual case .
"i would therefore ask , commissioner , that you monitor the selection procedure ."
the involvement of industry was of two kinds .
perhaps it would be helpful if I outlined how that was .
subject european union accession to the european convention on human rights
"pl thank you , mr šemeta , for your answer ."
"unfortunately , I do not find it satisfactory ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"member of the commission . mr president , I will try to answer the question ."
"technically and legally , I understand the commissioner's response ."
we need a peer review system we need monitoring mechanisms .
"so , work is now in progress ."
"well , let us hope that it does not take too long !"
subject international cooperation on tax havens and offshore companies
the president cut off the speaker 
your point is a really interesting one and we are looking at various forms of tax evasion .
this could also allow us to make progress in dealing with tax evasion .
"for I suppose they do have some kind of justification , and they must be using it ."
does the commissioner have a comment to make on that ?
i hope that we will be able to make progress in this area .
"i am sorry , but the beginning of the second question was not very clear ."
"mr kelly , perhaps you could restate your question very briefly if you would not mind ."
the first part of your question was not very clear .
does the commission agree with that statement ?
i will leave the question to the comments of those who made them .
"we are now dealing with the current package , which includes three directives , and the issue of lichtenstein ."
the commission started this dialogue last week .
"sometime in the future , I will be able to inform you of the progress in this area ."
part two
subject serbia macedonia kosovo cross border cooperation
"how can the rule of law , investment , infrastructure and local border traffic be encouraged in the region ?"
"historically , the area has been underdeveloped and is currently the poorest in serbia ."
the commission has been providing significant financial assistance since 2000 .
"we intend to include kosovo montenegro as well , starting next year ."
"de mr president , commissioner , thank you for your excellent reply ."
"you yourself come from a wonderful region of europe , euregio egrensis ."
people are really suffering a great deal there .
"member of the commission . it would , indeed , be one of my priorities in this region ."
"the internationally recognised name of one of the three countries is fyrom , former yugoslav republic of macedonia ."
it is unacceptable for this to be entered on parliament's list in an official debate .
subject full implementation by turkey of the association agreement and the additional protocol
has turkey made any commitment to sign the protocol in 2010 ?
"on this basis , the council will be able to evaluate the situation and draw the appropriate conclusions ."
"el commissioner , thank you very much for your reply ."
one of them has been mentioned by you .
"mr gallagher , I am asking one of the staff to come round to talk to you ."
we now move back to mr kelly .
it is your second and last supplementary .
"it is important to stress that we were not to know , as questioners , that this would happen ."
indeed we have been pushing for a debate on the mercosur bilateral talks .
"mr president , I will not delay you because I understand you are pressed for time ."
i totally agree with what mrs mcguinness has just said .
"i am very angry , quite frankly , about the way this has been done ."
it will provide a much wider opportunity for debate and discussion .
"but let us see how we get on , mr gallagher ."
"if you want to be patient and wait , we will see how we get on ."
the united nations framework offers an opportunity for such talks .
the european union has no competence to intervene in such cases .
"ultimately , this regrettable situation results from the yet to be resolved cyprus problem ."
there should be no pressure from any side .
"as mentioned earlier , this is an issue for internal cypriot dialogue ."
subject middle east peace
how is the commission using the european neighbourhood policy to bring positive results to bear on this situation ?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply .
what have you done to raise this question ?
member of the commission . I would like to start where the honourable member ended .
"we should use to the maximum the channels we have and find new ones , as appropriate ."
do we not need a new way of communicating our message ?
i think israel's policy has been regarded by many of us as deceitful .
"through the association agreement , the commission has the power to put pressure upon israel ."
what is needed at this point in time is a political solution to the closure of gaza .
"i apologise to baroness ludford , who has now left the chamber ."
subject progress of democratisation in georgia and azerbaijan
does the commission intend to reward countries that have made progress in complying with european standards ?
"this monitoring is recorded in the commission's annual progress report , which we issue every spring ."
the commission continues to raise its concerns with the administration of azerbaijan and georgia at various levels .
"mr füle , thank you for your answer ."
member of the commission . I agree with the approach that neighbourhood policy is about reform for reforms .
subject infringement of fair trade rules by european importers
subject fair trade
"on top of this , hundreds of local authorities are becoming fair trade towns ."
commissioner mandelson took up the coordination of fair trade issues in dg trade in 200does the commission plan to keep this responsibility ?
one of their biggest assets is that they are non governmental in nature .
i would also recognise that there is considerable scope for consumer confusion .
i am pleased to hear that you are going to coordinate .
"thank you for your brevity , commissioner ."
"as the author is not present , question 34 lapses ."
subject draft eu colombia free trade agreement
subject eu colombia free trade agreement
this human rights clause should include the provision to suspend the agreement where human rights violations occur .
it is not yet clear whether the national parliaments would also be called on to approve the agreements .
i can confirm that the agreement with colombia and peru includes a broad clause on human rights .
"thank you , commissioner , for that answer ."
the high representative has described human rights as a silver thread that will run through all our external policy .
i have heard what the commissioner said about the suspension clause .
i want to know if any assessment has been made .
we are going to continue to monitor this very closely .
"with respect to the question by david martin , yes , we have made that assessment ."
"in the end , it is a political assessment ."
you know what the remedies are they are the right ones .
thank you commissioner .
"thank you , colleagues , for your questions ."
"the chair of the european parliament is wholly impartial and independent , but I hope holland wins !"
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers see annex .
that concludes question time .
the sitting was suspended at 20.30 and resumed at 21.00 
novel foods debate 
"indeed , we often hold discussions here on food that has been tinkered with ."
"innovation is all well and good , but not at the expense of human life and health ."
what exactly arenovel foods?
one example of this is nanotechnology .
the manufacturers would like to place this on the market .
"consumers always love novelty , and indeed new technologies can help us combat obesity , for example ."
a food should not reach our plates unless its safety is guaranteed .
now for the stumbling block meat from cloned animals and their offspring .
"cloned animals are often crippled or diseased , and most are not even alive when they are born ."
"in other words , there is little sign of respect for animal welfare ."
the discussion on cloned meat is not new .
the european parliament has been debating the cloning of animals since back in 200the council took the view that meat from cloned animals should fall under novel foods legislation .
"therefore , parliament was unable to reach agreement with the council at second reading ."
"therefore , I make an emphatic call for separate legislation on the cloning of animals ."
we must not produce any unpleasant surprises at the last moment .
i am grateful for parliament's broad support for the improvement of the proposal to streamline the authorisation procedure .
"regarding animal cloning , I share the importance that parliament attaches to this highly sensitive issue ."
i look forward to hearing the views of the members .
it deals with novel foods and new processes for manufacturing foodstuffs .
"i agree that a new definition is needed , but we should not limit ourselves to definition and labelling ."
i hope and trust that this will be the case .
the effects of nanomaterials on the human body are unknown .
we must do our utmost to guarantee safe consumption .
we represent citizens and we must not forget this fact .
most of us would also agree that the question of transparency is crucial when we address this dossier .
we therefore need to guarantee public access to data on which the risk assessment for novel food is based .
transparency should also apply when we speak about the labelling of products from animals fed by gmos .
"these are foods manufactured using new production techniques , foods that did not exist before 15 may 199we want the commission to present a legislative proposal without delay , and we are really pushing for this ."
the absent council has accepted only a very limited number of amendments from our first reading .
i hope the commission does keep its promise to produce not just a report but an actual legislative proposal .
i believe this is something the european public really needs and is calling for .
can these things affect our health ?
"if so , should they therefore be included in a regulation on medicinal products ?"
"it makes sense to have eu legislation in this area , but there are many different interests involved ."
who actually wants these new initiatives ?
is it the industry that wants to sell more products ?
or is it really the consumer ?
i do not believe it is the latter .
"in europe , we can easily feed ourselves without the need for cloned products ."
the precise purpose of these regulations is to safeguard food safety and human health .
"unfortunately , however , the reality is much duller ."
need I remind you that the technology being used to obtain such food is still experimental in many respects .
the group of the european people's party christian democrats cannot support her on every point .
we take a different view regarding additives and animals fed with feed derived from gmo plants .
"however , she has done an excellent job ."
"i also want to thank our shadow rapporteur , mrs ayuso , for the excellent work she has done ."
the following important reasons were put forward during the discussion in the group .
we do not need it .
"the population is very evidently against it , as stated by all the surveys ."
i am sure that we are not just talking here about a vague gut feeling .
"it contains so many unanswered questions , justifying this sense of unease ."
cloned animals suffer .
they often need to be put to sleep because they have terrible diseases .
animal protection is not just a principle which we can apply willy nilly .
the authors of the treaties have imposed this on us .
we must absolutely avoid creating laws which fail to take animal protection into consideration .
"it is for these reasons that we will be supporting it tomorrow too , with a large majority ."
"we had an interesting debate too on this regulation , which was also filled with controversy ."
"commissioner , I believe that you said that we have a consensus ."
"with novel foods , we need prior authorisation before they enter the market ."
this would not conform to the concept of the internal market and the uniformity of health and living conditions .
we are not calling for a ban on gmos and nanomaterials .
a great deal has already been said about meat from cloned animals .
"i would like you , commissioner , to remove this section from the novel foods regulation ."
this would pave the way for a regulation on all the other topics which are not controversial .
an agreement was not reached between the parties during the trialogue .
we all know about the extremely rigorous cross compliance rules .
please take into account the rather difficult situation currently facing farmers and ensure fair competition for european farmers .
this is how we can recognise the benefits of certain healthier novel foods .
i find it regrettable to have only one ideological opinion on the issue of cloned animals .
the european commission has pledged to put a proposal to us .
do we not already have enough rules governing food ?
we certainly do need it .
"if there is going to be a novel foods regulation , it should really only apply to novel foods ."
"the situation is different with regard to nanotechnology , which is a new procedure ."
"however , we should avoid demonising this new technology , as has often happened in the past ."
we must not stand in the way of progress .
i am astounded at the information that is already available and at the research that has been carried out .
"we certainly still need to do this with nanotechnology , but the opportunities which it opens up are huge ."
we should continue to utilise and promote them .
i look forward to finding out what will be put before us .
thank you for your attention .
there are major doubts at the moment surrounding the safety of meat derived from cloned animals .
these animals have suffered premature ageing or other diseases .
cloned animals suffer .
most cloned organisms have not survived or have died prematurely .
the success rate is one viable organism in 75 cloning attempts .
"last but not least , cloning also raises issues about the safety of using these techniques ."
this technique is still too dangerous to be used for the direct benefit of mankind .
it is a serious ethical issue .
we must guarantee that it is safe .
"firstly , the legislation must have a scientific basis ."
"our decisions must be based on relevant research , and on objective and well conducted science ."
"it must not be a question of personal taste , religious conviction or particular interests ."
consumers will reject novel foods if they cannot be certain that what we are offering is indeed safe .
the citizens of europe have a right to demand that .
this is at complete odds with innovation and development .
"we must not impede or prevent new things , but we must guarantee that they are safe ."
the situation in the european union regarding our meat supply is adequate .
"there is no reason , therefore , to have to fall back on meat from cloned animals ."
meat from cloned animals is definitely not a priori harmful .
"however , risks cannot always be excluded either ."
there is no reliable evidence available to show what kind of suffering such animals endure .
cloning is a clear encroachment on nature and we require a clear political decision on this .
not everything that can be made is also for mankind's benefit .
there must be no cloned animals in the food chain .
"we must send out a consistent , clear political message to the commission and our citizens ."
another important topic in this regulation is the rules on nanotechnology .
i call on the commission to table a proposal on this as soon as possible .
"we only know that this technique causes suffering , hurt and pain to animals , which is often avoidable ."
"de mr president , I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work ."
this will take account of the high level of health protection in the european union .
stringent regulations and quality standards are constantly being imposed on and implemented by the agricultural sector in europe .
the precautionary principle must apply in particular in the food sector .
we do not need meat from cloned animals for the sake of food supply security .
"as the european parliament we should , during the forthcoming second reading , ."
the president cut off the speaker 
we need a new regulation in order to place novel foods on the market safely .
we certainly do not need meat from cloned animals .
there are a whole range of reasons why we do not need this meat from cloned animals .
"our european citizens , who are our consumers , reject this product ."
"this is presented , on the one hand , as scaremongering and , on the other , as anti scientific ."
"i believe that we will benefit not only our consumers in doing so , but also european agriculture ."
"i , too , would like to express my admiration and thanks to the rapporteur ."
"at present , the european group of ethics does not see convincing arguments to justify ."
the president cut off the speaker 
nanotechnologies have become widely used in food processing across the world .
"in europe , we need well developed and researched products which we can guarantee are safe for human consumption ."
"products must be safe , tested and approved and labelled in a way that does not mislead the consumer ."
the president cut off the speaker 
one asks oneself why should we ?
is there perhaps a shortage of meat stocks in europe ?
absolutely not .
this is not a valid argument .
is there enough information for consumers ?
can a consumer clearly understand and choose which is meat from a cloned animal and which is not ?
"are they , by any chance , safe from a scientific point of view ?"
"well , we will be able to say in 50 years ."
it took centuries to work out that penicillin could come from mould .
"does europe , perchance , say yes to everything ?"
"no , because this europe does not want product provenance stated , it is against ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"first , the replacement of the decentralised authorisation procedure with a centralised procedure at eu level ."
the safety assessment would be carried out by efsa and the authorisation decision taken by the commission .
"fifth , clarification of the fact that all food products containing nanomaterials require case by case authorisation by eu citizens ."
i look forward to a debate with the european parliament and council on this .
annex position of the commission
amendments 
"indeed , much has been said about this , but the novel foods regulation is about very much more ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow , wednesday , 7 july 2010 , at 12 00 ."
written statements rule 149 
"animals , moreover , should not suffer for human health ."
thank you .
all citizens of the union are entitled to the necessary protection and security in this area .
only if this is guaranteed can new products be authorised for sale in the eu .
industrial emissions integrated pollution prevention and control recast debate 
"mr president , this debate was timed badly ."
i would like to emphasise two aspects .
the first is the environmental requirements in industrial plants .
what we are talking about here is the better implementation of best available techniques in europe .
i have heard many arguments in this debate .
"i do not like to remember my past , but I come from the former gdr , east germany ."
"we are not talking about things which are not available on the contrary , this is up to date technology ."
this directive represents a significant step forward in the control of industrial pollution in the european union .
it also provides us with the opportunity to stimulate eco innovation .
"mr president , I would like to begin by thanking mr krahmer for having pushed for ambitious legislation ."
it is therefore worth voting for .
i am pleased that we succeeded in achieving this .
this places germany at a competitive disadvantage compared to others .
this is an argument that can apply to many aspects of environmental legislation .
there has to be a level playing field .
the question is that we have now recast this legislation .
member states have got off the hook .
"my member state , the united kingdom , has got off the hook ."
it has not done what germany did .
"mr president , I shall keep it brief , as the netherlands uruguay match is still going on ."
"i shall keep it brief , then , as I want to catch the end of the game ."
"in the light of this , I am truly disappointed with the course of the negotiations ."
"nevertheless , when all is said and done , I am a definite supporter of this tightening up ."
"at the end of the day , that is what this is all about ."
we are to be given a level playing field and we are to have clean air .
"at the end of the day , however , we are making progress ."
"i believe that the match is now over , and that the netherlands has reached the final ."
"sadly , england could not be there , but never mind we cannot have everything ."
"we have reached , in the end , what is an acceptable compromise ."
member states are not particularly happy .
certainly some members of this house are very unhappy .
"i hope mr eickhout's unhappiness is mitigated later but , nevertheless , it is a good overall result ."
"at the end of the day , that is always the consumer ."
this is also the approach we support for carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions .
this commitment ensures that this varied reality will be observed .
this applies in particular to the transitional national plans which will apply to large power plants .
"unfortunately , the electricity market is not yet a single market ."
it will take time to achieve that objective .
"commissioner , you said it yourself ."
"after all , the previous directive dates from 1996 that is , 14 years ago !"
"if we do our work on time , then we can also carry out innovations and still protect jobs ."
"thus we have a great success , though it is spoiled somewhat by the large combustion plants ."
"the small fry are arrested , while the big fish are allowed to go free ."
what happens so often in life is also unfortunately happening here with industrial plants .
cs it is clearly very important to press for reductions in emissions of hazardous substances by industry .
this process is very important .
this is the least we must do for the sake of human health and the environment .
"even after this directive , the situation will not really be good anywhere in europe ."
i am especially sorry that both the number and size of the exemptions were so great under this compromise .
"of course , it is a good compromise ."
around 95 % of the polish energy sector is based on coal .
adoption of the krahmer report will put enterprises in a difficult situation .
this is economically and technically problematic .
this should be made to apply only to new investments .
it is based on dogmatic principles .
it leads to unsustainable development and unfair competition within the european union .
"first , a degree of flexibility is maintained for businesses and for the authorities responsible for granting exemptions ."
installations which come under the remit of this directive must be authorised .
i think that this directive should be linked to the european union's industrial policy .
"pl mr president , I would like to comment on two matters ."
the second matter concerns member states with a coal based industry and the draft directive .
the transitional periods for large combustion plants concerning so2 and nox emissions are particularly important to us .
i would like to congratulate all of the negotiators .
we need a controlled reduction of excess bureaucracy so that we can have more efficient activity .
we need concrete and compact guidelines which establish eu wide minimum standards .
we need the accompanying increase in efficiency in order to be able to protect our environment more effectively .
"however , we also need an independent and objective controlling body which will ensure adherence to the new guidelines ."
the agricultural sector therefore has a leading role to play in climate and environmental protection .
industry can now follow .
ro I approve of the compromise text resulting from the trialogues .
the disparities between member states in terms of enforcing the legislation and monitoring this enforcement have been removed .
it will allow derogations to be agreed from the emission values accepted and based on the best available techniques .
these derogations concern cases where investment costs outweigh environmental benefits .
the upshot of all this .
the president cut off the speaker 
"it is a pity , because it is a hugely important directive for both air quality and eu industry ."
"although we achieved a reasonable compromise , companies must invest in cleaning technology , which is not necessarily available ."
plants will have to be closed prematurely and the costs to the consumer will be considerable .
the premature closure of plants would represent a cost that the resultant environmental benefit would not cover .
flexibility is still possible but must now be clearly justified .
the commission can collect information on the use of this flexibility .
you are probably aware that our proposal was for a shorter time .
i hope that I have already proved that in the first half of my mandate .
i believe that a level playing field is an important argument that we have to follow .
i think it is fair to say that we give industry time to build changes into normal investment plans .
we should also look to a positive side of the agenda that we also gain a technological advantage .
that is what the compromise is bringing .
the fact is that we are moving .
it certainly has the support of the commission .
"a good omen , I think ."
"who exactly it will be , we will see ."
i do not want to express any preference now .
the second is that germany is receiving compliments from the united kingdom .
"chris davies , many thanks !"
that also does not happen every day .
it is certainly worth noting .
"however , congratulations to our dutch friends , of course ."
i wanted to talk about two aspects of the debate to which I have just been able to listen .
the first is that I understand all the worries and woes of my eastern european friends only too well .
"as an east german , I am also half eastern european ."
"in order to get high level environmental protection , one has to be able to afford it ."
"yes , that is true ."
we must deal with the fact that industrial processes in asia are always cheaper than here .
those which do not do this will become less competitive .
"no one , including this law , is demanding that an industrial enterprise should be switched off tomorrow ."
"we have enough transitional periods , but to say that we must go without for competitive reasons is false ."
". mr krahmer , congratulations on your excellent work ."
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow , wednesday , 7 july 2010 , at 12 00 ."
written statements rule 149 
i wish to welcome the trialogue conducted on the subject of the proposal for an industrial emissions directive .
"at the moment , we are witnessing tentative development of alternative energy resources in certain regions ."
this maintains considerable dependency on fossil fuels .
we must find solutions enabling us to invest in state of the art energy production facilities in the least polluting way possible .
industrial activity requires a high level of environmental protection .
"this is particularly true for the prevention of air and water pollution , but also for biodiversity ."
the main strategy emerging as a result is to combat environmental pollution at source .
it is also requested to support and monitor the member states in implementing the measures .
"in this regard , cooperation with european confederations of industry , smes and ngos plays an important role ."
"however , it should be emphasised that not all member states are able to implement it ."
losses to industry may be as high as pln 50 billion .
implementation of the directive will also have an adverse effect on thousands of polish businesses .
this is four years shorter than poland had expected .
extending the transitional period would make technological conversion easier for small heating plants .
introduction of the directive will also affect the lives of ordinary citizens .
"in view of the above , the recommendation for second reading of the industrial emissions directive should be rejected ."
obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market debate 
these operators must be aware of the wood's origin .
"parliament would have liked a ban on the entire chain , and not just the first seller ."
all parties must therefore take responsibility for ensuring that no illegal timber is sold in the eu .
the most blatant breaches of the ban on the sale of illegal timber should be treated as crimes .
we examined the sort of contexts in which this concept occurs in current legislation .
illegal harvesting also destroys biodiversity .
forests are of vital importance in maintaining biodiversity and in global climate and water cycles .
nowhere are the three pillars of sustainable development clearer than in relation to forests .
the challenge remains as to how we detect illegally harvested timber .
the proposal in front of you deserves your support .
it certainly has mine .
"mr president , first of all , I would like to thank mrs hassi and the other shadow rapporteurs ."
"however , I must say that we worked well together ."
i would also like to thank the spanish presidency .
i had three things in mind when working on this issue .
"firstly , that timber is a wonderful and renewable material that we use too little rather than too much ."
"we must not impose higher requirements on timber than we do on oil , for example ."
"secondly , it must be possible to implement the legislation ."
the export of timber and timber products was an important factor in sweden becoming rich once upon a time .
we must not prevent other countries that are currently poor from exporting and trading .
"many of my objections have been heard , for which I am very grateful ."
i think that we have achieved a great deal .
i see many friends here who fought hard with us .
this is absolutely absurd .
"however , this legislation protects european citizens and european producers from unfair competition from cheap illegal timber ."
it is also because today we are sending a very strong signal to the rest of the world .
"this is a very important signal on the part of the european union , and should not be underestimated ."
"deforestation both legal and , in particular , illegal remains a major problem in the world ."
"fair is fair , however this signal is actually only effective thanks to the european parliament ."
"as far as I am concerned , this is a great victory for democracy ."
"unfortunately , if it is not enforced effectively , it will be a paper tiger ."
this also goes for the shadow rapporteurs .
"in my opinion , parliament has set an example of how it can operate and express its democratic power ."
it has been a pleasure working with her .
i am very happy to have been part of the successful negotiations to secure an agreement .
we would do well not to underestimate the success there .
it is possible to come to such agreements when we all work together .
i would like to highlight one of the very welcome side effects .
it follows on nicely from what jan was just saying .
"mr president , commissioner , I would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs of this excellent work ."
we are therefore also talking about the transfer of wealth from the producer to the countries consuming this timber .
this illegal practice places sustainable timber exploitation and the companies involved in it at risk .
nice sounding words are not enough .
parliament must adopt strong and consistent measures in this fight .
this report takes a very important step in this direction by defining prohibitions on timber trading .
good intentions are not enough either .
"effective means are needed , particularly penalties , which could be of three types in this case ."
"however , how far back should we trace timber , and which products is it realistic to check ?"
"i am thinking about furniture consisting of mdf and chipboard that is made of recycled wood , for example ."
"i hope that , with this proposal , we will be able to prevent that from happening ."
i hope that the commission will put forward proposals relating to this as soon as possible .
"it is important for our citizens , judging by my postbag and the number of e mails I have received ."
no wonder illegal logging fuels criminality in madagascar .
"the civil war in liberia , mainly funded through illegal logging , killed 250 000 people ."
it fuelled the war in cambodia in the 1990s and it is the enemy of democracy .
human rights watch says that usd 2 billion have been lost in tax revenues in indonesia .
so what we are doing today is a first step .
i would like to thank the commissioner for going further than his predecessors .
"tomorrow , we will make a start ."
"he was sympathetic , but his services and lawyers said it could not be done ."
"it can be done , and here we have proof of it ."
"this is excellent , this is good news and an important measure ."
"however , this directive requires that member states introduce enforcement regimes which are effective , proportionate and dissuasive ."
what does that mean ?
"one sees the wordseffective , proportionate , dissuasivetime and time again ."
i would like you to be the first commissioner to actually ensure that those words have proper effect .
"de mr president , I think that we are making good legislation today ."
it would be much too bureaucratic to provide documentary evidence of origin throughout the entire supply chain within europe .
this was on the table at the beginning of the debate .
"therefore , we must be moderate in this area and ensure balance ."
we have succeeded in doing this .
"this is not only applicable to felling , and it will not work ."
zero risk is not feasible .
"it produces bureaucracy and , above all , produces new risks ."
we must ensure that the laws remain balanced and feasible .
"in this sense , this compromise is a good one ."
i am pleased that we will be able to approve it with a large majority tomorrow .
we are surely all unanimous on that issue .
that should not be the purpose at all .
it is also important that we do not accord timber a status that is inferior to other materials .
"that , too , is now something to make us apprehensive ."
this is an important example of how we should not work .
we have quite a bit to do in this area in the future .
we must try to avoid the sorts of problems that we have in connection with this issue in particular .
this is why it is imperative for europe to improve the legislative framework in this area .
"however , it is not a perfect solution ."
there are options for bypassing even this system .
"however , further measures are ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"after all , 20 % to 40 % of worldwide industrial timber production comes from illegal sources ."
"around 13 million hectares of forest are deforested every year , as we have already heard today ."
i would like to thank the rapporteur .
a decent society creates sensible rules .
"decent people respect them , and decent governments should not have a problem with prosecuting thieves ."
it is therefore necessary .
the president cut off the speaker 
"on the contrary , it is because of the high level of consensus in the room ."
"and , yes , it is also an important part of the fight against poverty ."
"the impact of the regulation depends on effective implementation , and the challenge is far from over ."
we are clearly dealing with a proposal of a noble nature .
i am looking forward to engaging in the implementation and enforcement process together with you .
i am glad that we have made possible what he thought impossible at the time .
many have been and are concerned about bureaucracy .
the companies should have the documents needed for this in any case .
"it is required , for example , under the laws on vat ."
they need to be genuinely effective in the prevention of malpractice .
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place tomorrow , wednesday , 7 july 2010 , at 12 00 ."
written statements rule 149 
"nowadays , 20 30 % of industrial timber production worldwide is from illegal sources ."
we need to clean up the european timber market as soon as possible .
"while it could still be improved , the proposed regulation is ambitious and courageous ."
the regulation establishes a binding provision which delegates responsibilities on the basis of thedue diligence system.
"in many cases , we see illegal extraction even in european union countries ."
"this is linked to the management of animals , especially the taller ones ."
it is appropriate to resolve these questions at the corresponding national or regional levels .
the confederal group of the european united left nordic green left will certainly support the rapporteur's proposals .
illegally harvested timber and timber products have no place on our market .
this is also a human rights issue .
"last week , dutch television showed how our energy companies profit from coal mining in south africa ."
the spokespeople of these companies were turning a blind eye they lacked the courage to be publicly accountable .
similar practices occur in the deforestation sector .
we must eradicate these root and branch .
large scale logging drives people from the areas where they live .
"i endorse the environmental and climate targets , whilst also advocating protection of human rights ."
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
corrigendum to a text adopted rule 216 see minutes
documents received see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
industrial emissions integrated pollution prevention and control recast 
"capital requirements for the trading book and for re securitisations , and the supervisory review of remuneration policies "
cross border crisis management in the banking sector 
iceland's application for membership of the european union 
voting time
the next item is the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
request for the defence of parliamentary immunity see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 09.00 
documents received see minutes
future of the cap after 2013 debate 
we are pleased to welcome commissioner cioloş .
i believe this to be an extremely positive detail .
what is the cap for ?
why is it still relevant in the 21st century ?
that is the scale of the challenge .
that would help to create jobs and provide real opportunities for farmers to diversify and earn extra income .
it cannot be right and justified to continue making payments based on how you farmed some 10 years ago .
"we also have to address the issue of market volatility , but on this I would urge some caution ."
"yes , we still need intervention and private aids to storage ."
"yes , we need to examine other tools such as risk insurance and future markets ."
"yes , we need our special reserve budget line to fund action in terms of crisis ."
that has already been tried and it has failed .
i would suggest that we do not wish to go down that road again .
i have a few comments about the amendments which have been tabled and which are going to be discussed .
i think that food production is an important objective of the cap .
"as far as cross compliance is concerned , I think that it has had a positive impact on direct payments ."
it has also clearly defined the starting point of public goods rightly remunerated from the public purse .
"of course , we can simplify cross compliance measures ."
"as far as our group is concerned , this report conveys an ambition for european agriculture ."
agriculture must be supported in this evolution .
the issue of generational change will be one of our concerns .
the report which we will adopt today includes proposals tabled by members representing political groups and individual member states .
we need the common european agricultural policy .
let us forget any thoughts of renationalisation .
"this , of course , includes finding food for nine billion people ."
let us not see agriculture as an environmental villain and environmental problem .
agriculture and forestry hold the fundamental solutions to our huge problems .
"mr president , please accept my congratulations ."
previous cap reforms have led to the liberalisation of agricultural markets .
"they have given rise to profound injustices in the distribution of aid between countries , products and producers ."
it is also essential that we maintain the second pillar of the common agricultural policy .
"mr president , I would like to thank the rapporteur for this report ."
the future of farming and the cap must provide farmers with a viable secure income .
pillar one payments must continue giving farmers a direct payment which gives them a minimum level of income security .
the distribution of cap funds must take into consideration the cost of production in member states .
regional variation must therefore be taken into consideration and catered for in the post cap 20in this report we describe the effects of the common agricultural policy post 20my group will support this .
this is a good thing .
the primary function of agriculture is and remains the production of food for our citizens .
farmers are required to produce more and more with less and less .
this is impossible without increasing efficiency .
"the european parliament , the commission and the council are responsible for securing the necessary framework conditions for this ."
"everything else is very worthy , very desirable , but secondary ."
we must face up to this problem and solve it .
we cannot continue with such great differences in the long term .
solving this problem is going to be difficult .
"i would like to thank mr smith , who has noticed the problem with the budget ."
it is necessary to amend the cap to help those who need it urgently .
currently the largest proportion goes to big owners and to producers .
"a proper budget for the cap is also important , and I express my thanks to mr lyon ."
these systems can operate and become widespread throughout the european union .
the commission must commit itself to defining a budget that is sufficient to achieve these objectives .
"what is more , at this time of crisis , many young people want to return to farming ."
i believe that the commission must take a supportive and flexible approach to helping young farmers .
"an information policy must also be launched , starting in schools and universities , in order to promote a ."
the president cut off the speaker 
i wish to stress in particular the articles referring to the common agricultural policy's architecture .
the cap must continue to be based on its two pillars .
another key point is to maintain a cap budget at least at its current level .
"however , farmers need support to be able to comply with these standards ."
"a well structured , properly financed common agricultural policy means safe , good quality food for europeans ."
"mr president , I too wish to thank my colleague george lyon for his excellent work on this report ."
it is also important that there is no renationalisation of the cap through cofinancing .
the common agricultural policy must remain a common european policy .
secondly transparency and proportionality should be central to the future cap .
"lastly , european farmers produce food to the highest quality and standards ."
"we also need to ensure a level playing field , fair competition and the future viability of european agriculture ."
bulgarians and romanians will receive a mere 40 % .
"at the same time , all are operating in the common market of the european union ."
i firmly believe that this injustice must be eliminated as soon as possible .
all farmers throughout the union must have an equal position and the same conditions for subsidies .
"in the 1970s , nearly 70 % of the eu budget was spent on agriculture ."
"unfortunately , today the revised cap is being designed under the same conditions of competitiveness as the previous policy ."
it is insulting that the economic crisis is being used as a pretext to cut benefits to farmers .
"moreover , it is the latter who are to blame for today's conditions of crisis ."
"mr president , I declare an interest as a working farmer ."
plans for the future of the cap have to work at a practical level and it must be affordable .
"if there has to be a cap , let it assist farmers and not hinder them ."
"fr mr president , I understand that you had a short and happy night ."
what is the aim here ?
that is the aim .
what do we mean by that ?
"rejecting the renationalisation of the cap and increasing cofinancing , that is the first point ."
"ensuring that agriculture can provide the public goods demanded by society , that is the third element ."
"the fourth element is regulating and preventing market volatility , which I believe is essential ."
we must return to this topic and we need to go a little further still .
my final point concerns the first and the second pillar .
i am saying that this morning because this is the debate we are holding .
"commissioner , I would like to finish with a simple idea ."
the cap was created at the same time as the european economic community .
we are now in the european union .
i really feel that we ought to have a major policy .
the president cut off the speaker 
"finally , it needs to deliver value for money ."
"to my mind , that means we should ensure that funds are used effectively ."
the rapporteur has produced an excellent report .
i congratulate him on his work and am happy to support .
"farmers will be paid per hectare for water conservation , reforestation and so forth ."
choice without an alternative is no choice at all .
wales has a strong history of agriculture and many communities depend heavily upon farming .
its market orientation will continue as at present .
we need a proper safety net .
"commissioner , our farmers will once more have to make efforts to adapt ."
any changes that do take place must be accompanied by realistic transition periods .
i would like to thank mr lyon and all of the shadow rapporteurs for their work .
"as you know , the rules of procedure make provision for five to speak ."
"in accepting new challenges , the common agricultural policy must maintain its care for environmental values and food security ."
"in addition , I propose leaving tried and tested instruments for market regulation untouched ."
milk quotas are an example .
"if they are ended , what will we replace them with ?"
"of course , there are certain ideas , but we do not have any certainty ."
the president cut off the speaker 
the president cut off the speaker 
"the evidence is that , today , europe is a net importer of agricultural raw materials ."
"furthermore , today we have a cap that must be reformed for three reasons ."
"it is a cap that is unfair , economically , socially and environmentally ."
"socially aid is unfairly distributed between countries , regions and farmers ."
eighty per cent of aid is allocated to 20 % of farmers .
"environmentally we need a cap which respects the soil , which respects ."
the president cut off the speaker 
that therefore means that the cap requires thorough reform and such reform requires starting from scratch .
yet our farmers are not always rewarded by the market for these contributions to the public good .
we therefore need support where the market fails .
the fact that the report calls for aid per hectare is a positive thing .
this will counteract further intensification of agriculture and make the achievement of environmental targets a more realistic prospect .
that is how we can reward our farmers .
"de mr president , ladies and gentlemen , agricultural policy needs a coherent framework ."
"this must strengthen the eu as a whole , while also taking regional differences into account ."
there are some enormous challenges facing agricultural policy .
"also , mr lyon alone referred to the historical basis ."
i would therefore welcome a clear signal on that from the commissioner as soon as possible .
new public mechanisms for regulating agricultural production will have to be established to ensure the food security of consumers .
we are in favour of a strong cap that has the budget it needs to achieve its objectives .
the president cut off the speaker 
the president cut off the speaker 
the president cut off the speaker 
i have two requests to speak in relation to observance of the rules of procedure .
mrs mcguinness has the floor first .
i will put in a written statement on this issue .
"i hope you support my point , colleagues ."
those are the rules of procedure .
"moreover , it is stipulated that five shall speak , although we have given 10 the floor ."
this is a very important issue .
"now mr obermayr has the floor , also in relation to observance of the rules of procedure ."
"de mr president , I assume you were referring to me ."
i would like to pick up on what the previous speaker said .
of course I would like to thank you for your generosity in allowing ten speakers rather than five .
"we understand your time constraints , naturally , but I hope you will understand us too ."
this is a very important issue .
there are parts of europe that are operating under a considerable burden and that are under extreme threat .
naturally this is also true beyond the work of the committees .
"secondly , you indicated that the problem regarding thecatch the eyeprocedure has not been resolved ."
it would be helpful and fair to put the appropriate structures in place as soon as possible .
we will also be happy to have a solution that is fair to us .
i beg your indulgence and thank you again for your understanding .
you are absolutely right .
"however , there are members here who are constantly getting the blue card out ."
"however , I do not wish to prolong the debate ."
i therefore feel that we need a realistic budget .
what we notice is that we are demanding more and more of our farmers .
we must reflect on how agriculture and the agri food sector can contribute to this .
i also want to send out a clear message and to answer mr kelly's question about direct aid .
"therefore , in my opinion , historic references do not constitute fair , transparent or objective criteria ."
"to conclude , I would like to reaffirm that we need a common agricultural policy for europe ."
a new strategic importance for food production and the cap absolutely .
"two pillars absolutely , I agree with that ."
"food production at the heart of the cap yes , that is absolutely what the cap is about ."
it needs to be objective and transparent as to how money is allocated between member states .
they need to meet the challenges of the europe 2020 strategy .
applause 
the debate is closed .
"the vote will take place today , thursday 8 july 2010 , at 12.00 ."
"as mrs mcguinness says , they may present their contribution in writing ."
"an effort needs to be made towards rigour , but it needs to be made by all of us ."
written statements rule 149 
adapting the cap to the new social and economic realities is a necessary step .
we actually need to answer some key questions to be able to do this .
i totally concur with the need to guarantee security of food supply .
"until now , the cap has kept prices high for foods which are cheaper in other countries ."
the eu cannot promote free trade while protecting its own agricultural market .
"however , I am concerned most about the impact which the cap reforms have had on farmers ."
decoupling is necessary to avoid overproduction .
"we need incentives for farmers , especially to encourage young people to move to rural areas ."
"however , this is not going to happen while maintaining the current direct payments system , which is ridiculous ."
"above all , the eu needs to retain the trust of european farmers ."
europe will still need an effective and common agricultural policy after 20this is why the eu's agricultural budget should at least be maintained at the current level .
europe has a particular responsibility to guarantee food safety in the world .
"therefore , the main task of the cap is to preserve the agricultural production capacity of the european union ."
it is therefore vital to ensure that direct payments do not decrease .
these would reduce farmerslosses arising from price fluctuations .
the european food trade is much more concentrated than the food processing industry or agricultural production .
this is why we must help improve cooperation between farmers .
"however , this requires an exemption from the stringent eu competition rules in agriculture ."
i would like to thank all those involved for the work they have done .
forward looking targets have been formulated for the entire community .
the tried and tested two pillar structure must be retained with a strong first pillar and an equally strong second pillar .
the major fluctuations in the liberalised markets and the effects of climate change continue to necessitate a safety net .
we thus provide for the possibility of a transitional period .
"such a period is essential , but a full seven years would be an excessively long transitional period ."
undistorted competition in europe is also a precondition for the competitiveness of european farmers in world markets .
the future of the common agricultural policy after 2013 is extremely important for us .
the entire european parliament needs to be aware of the cap's significance for the future of the eu .
"today , differences between the level of payments in different member states are too great ."
"this undermines the sense of solidarity , equality and community ."
"what farmers need most of all is stable incomes , both now and in the longer term ."
thank you very much .
"the report is firm on keeping the policy an eu one , rejecting attempts to re nationalise it ."
farmers should take heart that this parliament understands their concerns .
to begin with I want to thank my colleague mr lyon for drafting a very balanced report .
i believe that this has already allowed us to create a good basis for discussion for the near future .
changing agricultural policy is perhaps one of the biggest tasks of this plenary session .
the report is a good basis for further discussions .
thank you for your attention .
in writing . de I thank the rapporteur .
our primary goal must be to ensure high quality food production in europe .
"in the discussion on the organisation of agrarian reform , there was frequent talk of compensation of public goods ."
"in my opinion , this debate goes in the right direction ."
the development of rural areas plays an ever greater role .
"however , the european union recently gained 12 new member states ."
"however , this can only be achieved if the resources dedicated to agricultural policy are not reduced after 20i believe that only a major reform can save the common agricultural policy ."
this will further increase the gap between the eu15 and the 12 new member states .
"in reforming the cap , we must not forget the principles of integration , solidarity and community ."
direct payments significantly affect the security of food supplies .
the next item is the debate on 
i was one of the authors of the first oral question .
i am not at all happy that we now have a joint debate with two questions merging .
i have tried since may to get the mercosur question on the agenda .
i do not know how this happened or why this happened .
i am extremely unhappy about it .
can I come back to this in the debate ?
"i would like a clarification please , and I hope other colleagues will support me ."
clearly there was not enough time this morning .
you saw the demand and you saw the problem .
"can we get this parliament to work for the members of parliament , not for the administration of parliament ?"
the president cut off the speaker 
it is not the administration that organises debates .
the administration helps the political bodies organise debates .
"author . mr president , it is not because it is summertime and we are all cross ."
it is just because we make very valid points and we take our jobs seriously .
i am going to take 30 seconds because I have two blank pages .
i have asked five questions of the commission .
i do not intend to speak before I hear the answers .
i will return at the end of the debate .
"thank you very much , mrs mcguinness ."
i will grant you later the time that you have not used now .
"by the same token , ear tagging rules were not enforced ."
these are only some examples of the many I could list from the fao report last october .
"indeed , it will have entirely the opposite effect ."
europe already imports 500 000 tonnes of beef .
we cannot accept this .
europe buys 38 million tonnes of soya and feed for cattle .
these imports from brazil and argentina monopolise more than 19 million hectares .
"they are concentrated in the hands of three enterprises cargill , adm and bunch ."
between 2001 and 2004 soya destroyed more than 1.2 million hectares of tropical and equatorial forest .
it is one of the principal causes of the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and the loss of biodiversity .
this decision is motivated by the need to have environmentally friendly agriculture and to combat climate change .
these efforts will be completely undone by this draft bilateral agreement .
"these concessions will not serve the interests of the farming families of mercosur , only those of agro industrial groups ."
"many poultry farmers , particularly in brittany , paid the price for that deal ."
europe seems to want to pursue its policy of relocation by intensifying its attacks against farmers .
"we must stop this insane process by offering our citizens quality , locally produced food ."
"author . mr president , I will try and be brief ."
there are real concerns about the reopening of the negotiations with mercosur .
"i represent scotland , which has extensive beef production ."
"secondly , what negotiating mandate will the negotiators have in terms of agricultural products ?"
can someone please tell me what they are being allowed to negotiate on ?
how many tonnes of beef ?
how much access ?
"is there no tariff , or are there minimum tariffs ?"
can someone please tell us what the mandate is ?
two other points .
the two are completely linked and therefore we need to understand what the impact will be .
"finally , what involvement does the agriculture commissioner have on this issue ?"
will this parliament be consulted before any final agreement is reached ?
i would like to hear some answers to these questions .
we share a common history and social values with them .
the deepening of political and cultural ties and maximising mutual benefits in economic terms therefore makes perfect sense .
agriculture is only one part of this macro agreement .
fears therefore need to be faced in terms of their proper proportions and justification .
i am thus happy to respond in any format decided by the chair .
"in economic terms , a successful agreement could bring considerable benefits to both the eu and mercosur ."
it is an increasingly important partner for the eu .
"in terms of foreign direct investments , mercosur is also a key partner ."
the commission has taken this decision after a thorough examination and in depth internal debate .
"this was a proper decision of the college , and parliament was extensively informed immediately afterwards ."
that is something quite different .
the first meeting with mercosur took place last week in buenos aires .
we will of course keep the european parliament and the council fully informed about the evolution of the negotiations .
"this applies to all areas to be covered by the agreement , including agriculture ."
"in this context , we are aware that accompanying measures might become necessary for the most sensitive sectors ."
"it is , however , way too early to discuss what these measures could cover ."
we are only just starting the negotiations and have not yet entered into discussions on substance .
it is not the trade commissioner who decides what agricultural offers will be put on the table .
"that is the way it happens , so mr dacian cioloş is fully included in these discussions ."
i believe that if we make the right choices it is possible to successfully conclude both negotiations .
"as regards food safety , it goes without saying that imports have to fully respect eu food safety requirements ."
the eu approach in all trade negotiations is certainly not to decrease the eu level of protection .
now let me turn to the eu brazil summit and start with a short overview of our relations .
"moreover , brazil often acts as an informal bridge between western and emerging and developing countries ."
brazil is one of nine countries with which the eu has entered into a strategic partnership .
the moment for such an assessment is particularly appropriate as president lula's term in office approaches its end .
at the summit we will confirm our commitment to strengthening non proliferation and encourage closer cooperation .
brazil opposed the iran sanctions adopted last june by the un security council .
"the summit will also address regional issues cuba , honduras , paraguay and venezuela ."
"lastly , tough work is still being finalised on some issues where we expect the summit to deliver ."
"first , the signature of a horizontal civil aviation agreement and an air safety agreement ."
"second , the announcement of a joint work programme on triangular cooperation with developing countries ."
i will try to give additional examples in response to your questions .
"a brief digression commissioner , negotiations with the countries of the andes and central america have been completed ."
"do the agreements include a net exporter clause , in order to prevent the development of a trade triangle ?"
can the commission assure us that import prices will be maintained in the fruit and vegetable sector ?
brazil was the only bric country with which europe had no strategic partnership .
"beef imports will increase by 70 % , poultry imports by 25 % ."
"commissioner , I would therefore like to voice my concern to you ."
our agriculture is in great difficulty .
destabilising it further will have serious consequences .
we cannot develop european trade policy without taking account of and defending one of our main assets .
the commission must hear this message and this demand .
my group and I share these concerns .
that is why an impact assessment is absolutely essential .
clearly there is a lack of consistency here .
nor must we lose sight of the misgivings of the agricultural sector in relation to cheap meat imports .
"es mr president , we are all pleased about the freeing of political prisoners in cuba ."
"with regard to the subject of mercosur , there are several clarifications that need to be made ."
i do not understand why certain sectors or interest groups should come out of this negotiation at a disadvantage .
it will depend on the firmness of our negotiators .
"disastrous knock on effects might also follow for other sectors , such as the pork sector for example ."
"commissioner , I would ask you to be particularly vigilant in this regard ."
this is not scaremongering .
european farmers are operating under strict health and safety criteria .
"they adhere to all standards set for them and they guarantee high quality , safe produce for consumers ."
i agree that we must improve the coordination of all of these topics within the european parliament .
i should like to emphasise one point in particular .
i am actually grateful that the commission has reopened negotiations .
"on 5 may of this year , this house supported the reopening of negotiations in the salafranca report ."
"in other words , the commission is doing exactly what parliament decided by a large majority ."
"nonetheless , I would argue that we do not want an agreement at any price ."
"naturally the interests of agriculture , industry and the service sector must be taken into account as a whole ."
"however , commissioner , this trade with the mercosur countries should not be allowed to become a one way street ."
the frequent claims made in public that europe is closing itself off in the agricultural markets are quite wrong .
we purchase over 90 % of african agricultural exports and 45 % of central and south american agricultural exports .
europe is certainly not closed off to external trade .
"what I would criticise , commissioner , is the information policy pursued ."
it has not been good .
"as an agricultural policymaker , I first learned that these negotiations had begun when I opened the newspapers ."
in future we should not have to rely on the press for our information .
i urge you to inform the agricultural sector represented here in parliament about the progress of negotiations .
let me offer just one example in this regard .
"last year , parliament passed the most stringent plant protection product legislation in the world ."
many active ingredients are prohibited in europe .
consumer protection is inviolable and we would do well to remember this in negotiations .
you are not telling the truth !
"this is the truth , mr de gucht ."
this is the other reason for my question .
"incidentally , I would add that the new member states can only lose out here ."
they should sort it out themselves .
there is no need to provide an eu framework for this .
hu the european commission defined the negotiating mandates some 11 years ago .
the world has changed over the past 11 years .
the european commission has disregarded these developments .
it has not requested a new mandate .
"without a proper mandate , we can only reach unacceptable agreements ."
go back to the drawing board .
the last speaker addressed some of the points that I would wish to make .
"contrast that to the delight , or rather to the fear and trepidation and anger , among eu producers ."
this parliament imposes high standards of food production on our producers .
we have failed to defend them in the past .
there is no consistency between agriculture and trade policy .
this parliament has to insist that there will be .
that is precisely the issue being discussed behind the scenes at the negotiations with mercosur .
"where , I ask , is the consistency ?"
that is why I am extremely concerned .
"already we are talking about possible concessions on agriculture , and I would like you to clarify this ."
in your response you spoke about forthcoming summits on climate change .
"i come from ireland , and we export 90 % of our beef ."
recent research has shown that brazilian emissions are between three and eight times higher than the irish equivalent .
will any of this be taken into consideration in your impact assessments ?
"it mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the spanish presidency has decided to sign this agreement ."
i therefore call on the commission to adopt an authoritative position so as to safeguard european quality production .
sacrificing agriculture for gains in other areas is simply unacceptable .
the beef industry in the united kingdom is currently experiencing a fall in farm gate prices .
how is europe going to provide for these people ?
a commission that claims to act in the best interests of the citizens must do so .
we must end these talks and look after our farmers .
"pl negotiations with the mercosur countries were suspended in 200however , we should also be protecting the interests of our farmers and the agriculture and food sector ."
"if that happened , it would be necessary to propose certain forms of compensation to farmers ."
experts estimate that making such an agreement could result in very large losses of income among farmers .
these will be even higher if the agreement is both bilateral and made at wto level .
"however , when I consider our agricultural production and the products themselves , not everything can be proven scientifically ."
in europe we have some excellent legislation in relation to the future of biodiversity .
"the politicians must be able to decide , even when the scientific evidence is unavailable ."
we do not want cloned meat from the mercosur countries .
you understood that we feel that the mandate is no longer valid .
i would also like to draw your attention to the political aspects of mercosur .
"in trade , the key element is confidence ."
"how is mercosur qualified , politically speaking , to negotiate with the european union ?"
mercosur was almost dissolved at the 2007 summit .
the countries do not agree on accessions .
venezuela almost did not accede .
how can we negotiate in such a politically unstable area ?
first check the political stability of mercosur and then we will conclude trade agreements .
"de mr president , I believe that we have talked a great deal about sustainability ."
i think this is an outrage .
please tell us when you are going to ignore people .
"colleagues , by way of explanation , I have about 18 people on the list ."
today I took eight speakers .
so I think I have done the maximum I could have done .
first of all on the mandate .
"several members criticised the fact that we are working on the basis of a mandate going back to 199this applies to all areas to be covered by the agreement , including agriculture."
that is still true .
"that is still what we have to do , so nothing much has to be added to this mandate ."
"in the mean time , we have the problem of climate change and the world has changed since then ."
"yes , we have noticed that too , and we will take this into consideration in the negotiations ."
that is not the reason to change the mandate .
there was another member who said that council should be here and that council should instruct us .
the council does not have to instruct us .
we are not instructed by the council .
we will stick to that .
i am ready to discuss at length any of the elements .
i have done so with the inta committee and I am ready to go back to the inta committee .
a letter was sent by the director general for trade to his argentinean counterpart on 12 may .
our message was very strong and very clear .
we will insist that we have this meeting as soon as possible .
on sugar 
similar quotas are provided for within the framework of the negotiations with central america .
"the colombian , peruvian and central american aggregated quantities account for less than 2 % of european consumption ."
"as for plant health , environmental and other measures ."
we will do that .
but those are not the ones that we can impose on other countries .
i presume that this is not the last time we will discuss mercosur in this plenary .
"commissioner , I am also sure that this will not be the last time we do so ."
the joint debate is closed .
written statements rule 149 
reopening negotiations with the mercosur countries without consulting the member states was very dirty play .
"otherwise , the costs of concessions under the wto will be borne by our farmers ."
in writing . these mercosour talks represent a potentially dreadful development for the future of european agriculture .
i have to say that the commission's attitude to the matter has been appalling .
"this attitude , I find , is appalling ."
it is heartening to see so many agricultural meps here from all the groups supporting the protection of agriculture .
it seems that the mercosur negotiations are only pursuing one goal to hand over a defenceless european agriculture .
the sensitive agricultural sector must not be handed over in the negotiations .
"feel free to sell your grandmother , commissioner , but do not give away our european agriculture ."
"two commissioners for one report , what an honour !"
let us return to the report itself .
imports of fishery and aquaculture products from third countries account for more than 60 % of eu consumption .
"ladies and gentlemen , the survival of european fisheries is non negotiable ."
"in essence , we are demanding the following ."
this will mean that better account is taken of the specific characteristics of fishery and aquaculture products .
i think this is the perfect time to review the terms of this fundamental debate .
"indeed , we are on the eve of an important reform of the cfp ."
we have a fisheries sector that is neither ecologically sustainable nor economically performing well .
so here we need an answer .
i strongly support your call for an increased coherence of our policies .
we need to work together with a global and integrated vision .
"with reference to wto negotiations , we are paying particular attention to the ongoing discussions on subsidies ."
this brings us to labelling .
consumers want to know more about the seafood they buy .
the commission is ready to work on legislative initiatives aiming at giving consumers the information they need .
"finally , a word on aquaculture ."
this sensitivity is taken into consideration in the implementation of the common commercial policy .
i will be very honest with you on this point .
we therefore actively defend much stronger integration of social and environmental criteria into trade agreements regarding fishery products .
"however , we must be clear ."
for these reasons my group will obviously vote in favour of the report .
"moreover , I would like to congratulate mr cadec on the excellent work that he has done ."
they enter the european market at a price that is uneconomic for european producers .
europe's own catches have diminished at an alarming rate by 26 % since 1997 alone .
more than 60 % of all fish consumed in europe today is imported .
this should not need to be the case .
the cadec report mentions several important instruments that the eu can use .
the first is the iuu regulation .
"that is a first step , but it does not go far enough ."
the second instrument is already in place in the united nations .
"we have good international agreements , but we also need to implement them ."
we must continue to pursue this .
"mr president , commissioners , first of all I want to thank the rapporteur for his report ."
the value of nethrops or langoustines sold by my fishermen in northern ireland to other parts of europe plummeted .
this at the same time as imports of shellfish and fish have become increasingly available .
europe needs fish .
"we need fish imports , but I would contend that these should not come at any cost ."
"on the one hand , my colleagues want to stop our fishermen receiving any subsidy ."
europe cannot have it both ways .
is it your responsibility to prevent this ?
"mr president , the behaviour of members of this house today is disgraceful ."
it would not happen in any other parliament in the world .
applause 
"mr gallagher , we have to carry on ."
"de mr president , mrs damanaki , european fisheries policy is facing enormous challenges ."
doing both of these things at the same time will place too high a burden on our fishermen .
the best way to increase competitiveness is to allow fish stocks to recover .
another way to enable european fisheries to survive would be through better marketing .
i would also like to thank him for his excellent cooperation .
there are major challenges involved in regulating the import of fishery and aquaculture products into the eu .
this market is growing rapidly and is increasingly dependent on imports from third countries .
we have now submitted two amendments in plenary .
these relate to the need for us to recognise the special economic situation in the peripheral regions of europe .
"however , we do not hold market liberalisation alone responsible for the difficulties ."
the president cut off the speaker 
"without being protectionist , the line defended here may be described as less naïve ."
"that is why I favour a european label , in accordance with our standards , both environmental and social ."
we were told originally that there would be votes at 12.00 .
this has moved by five minutes every five minutes .
people have planes to catch it is inconvenient it makes a mockery of parliament .
someone get a grip !
applause 
i am sure that we will be able to vote at 12.i would like to say that we are taking care of all the concerns mentioned by the members .
"as mr de gucht and I have already mentioned , we are trying to find a balance ."
we need a viable fisheries sector and we have some obligations to the wto and other international bodies .
what you are doing here is scandalous .
you make me feel ashamed .
all you are worried about is voting and going home .
i will finish my speech by thanking you in advance for your vote .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
after the vote 
thank you very much .
thank you for reminding me .
i will get in touch with them about this .
european external action service 
"this was a major piece of work , and many european parliament committees also contributed ."
we have achieved a broad consensus .
i would like to thank everyone .
kosovo 
he was shot twice and wounded .
"he is one of us , a parliamentarian ."
an attack on an mp anywhere amounts to an attack on democracy .
this attack was aimed at the efforts to bring lasting stability to the region of the western balkans .
he is in intensive care in hospital in mitrovica .
let us wish him a quick and full recovery and express to him our full political and human support .
applause 
we all concur with what you have said .
before the vote on amendment 11 
i will read it in english .
"together with this parliament , I wish him a very speedy recovery ."
albania 
before the vote on amendment 2 
situation in kyrgyzstan 
"aids / hiv in view of the xviii international aids conference vienna july 18 23 , 2010 "
before the vote 
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , my group opposes this ."
the request was rejected 
fr let us calm down !
"in the german version , it states that the member states and the commission are invited ."
de to support measures in the field of safe abortions
fr . to support measures for safe abortion .
we will correct all the translations so that they are in harmony with the original texts .
we will check this .
thank you .
"mr president , ladies and gentlemen , I would reiterate our opposition ."
the request was rejected 
after the vote 
then they could determine the true view of parliament .
we have one side that whips the house and only one side that allows a free vote .
applause 
"mr president , if someone is named in this house , it is their right to reply ."
i was named .
applause 
future of the cap after 2013 
"unfortunately , the wordextensivehas been used in the translations ."
"however , the wordflächendeckendin the german translation has a completely different meaning ."
it meansin all of the regions of europe.
there should be agriculture flächendeckendagriculture even throughout mountainous regions .
extensivemeans something entirely different .
thank you for pointing this out .
we will correct the texts and harmonise them with the original .
after the vote on paragraph 44 
"the interpretation told us it was 44 , and yet you are announcing that 45 has been accepted ."
there is some confusion that you need to sort out and get the votes right and call them right .
"we were voting on paragraph 44 , as I told you ."
"i repeat the amendment has fallen , and paragraph 44 has been adopted ."
that is the outcome of the vote .
"we are voting on paragraph the vote was not clear for me , either , because you did not raise your hands ."
before the vote on paragraph 59 
"mr president , we need clarification ."
"we did not get a call on 59 , so we do not know where we are ."
now we are voting on paragraph 5you have paragraph 59 on the screen at the moment .
this is a separate vote .
before the vote on recital c 
we have completely different information here .
we now have to vote on recital c.
before the vote on recital ae 
my group is able to vote in favour of recital ae .
"mr deß , I will explain ."
de in that case I will ask my group to vote in favour twice .
"ladies and gentlemen , chairs , please listen carefully ."
voting time
the next item is the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
i have an announcement to make .
ms eva dudzinska is sitting to the right of me .
she has spent almost 35 years in the european parliament .
for the last 10 years her activities have been closely linked to the plenary .
she is now retiring .
i would like to thank her and wish her all the best for the future .
applause 
corrigendum rule 216 see minutes
explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
pl I endorsed the alvaro report .
"in order to be effective , we must have workable instruments for fighting terrorism ."
one very important preventative tool involves monitoring and reducing the financial resources which reach and belong to terrorists .
"very often , in fact , money is the fuel for terrorist activities ."
"fi mr president , I voted in favour of this report by mr alvaro ."
in this respect it needs to be very clear .
"mr president , there is always a delicate balance to be drawn between civil liberties and security ."
several times since the twin tower attacks nine years ago I think we have got that balance wrong .
"this chamber has made that mistake , but it has not been alone ."
national parliaments have done the same thing on both sides of the atlantic .
"on this occasion , though , I believe we have got the balance right ."
"ga mr president , I voted against the report on the european external action service ."
"mr president , I supported elmar brok's report ."
the united position of the european parliament has taken maximum advantage of the new opportunities the lisbon treaty offers .
i support especially the european parliament's political and financial supervision of the european external action service .
this process has only begun .
i think it is important that the 2013 review should also cover this issue of equal representation .
"mr president , I voted against this report ."
those of us who opposed the creation of the eeas out of principle in 2008 still oppose it .
"otherwise , I voted in line with my group's position on the matter ."
"lv thank you , mr president ."
the european external action service will represent the common position of the whole european union .
this practice must become the priority of european union foreign policy .
adequate geographical representation must be an unambiguous fundamental principle in the formation of the service .
thank you .
i want to draw attention to some important problems which we should take into account .
"secondly , the eu diplomatic service should reflect the character of the union ."
"responsibility for important regulatory , supervisory and budgetary functions rests with the european parliament ."
"thirdly , the unclear situation concerning who has control of the eeas is causing great concern ."
this may lead to the establishment of another union institution .
"fifthly and finally , let us remember that good diplomacy is built up over many years ."
the eeas should build on the values and identity of the european union .
the president cut off the speaker 
"despite that , I do have a few questions and concerns regarding this new service ."
"now , however , we all know that it will cost european taxpayers a great deal ."
"obviously , the high representative needs resources ."
in this way we could ensure that the service operated in a more equitable fashion .
human rights have to be her top concern .
the european union's diplomatic corps has already squeezed out the national services .
what is it doing ?
i think we could just about manage to do better .
we are the fourth largest military power on the planet and the fifth largest economy .
i think we can run our own foreign policy to suit our own interests !
"de mr president , I voted against the brok report for four reasons ."
"the architecture of the service has numerous weaknesses , the details of which still cause us great concern ."
the second point is that the european union ambassador will manage commission funds in future .
"that exposes these funds to numerous risks , and the safeguards against these risks are still extremely unclear ."
the third point is the relinquishment of the rights of this parliament in a council regulation .
the fourth point is the question of how we actually treat each other in parliament .
"for these reasons , I cannot vote in favour of this report ."
"unfortunately , I did not have any option other than to vote against this text ."
"however , I am from a country which has not recognised kosovo's independence ."
i regret that the position of states which do not recognise kosovo's independence was not given greater consideration .
"mr president , I voted in favour of the resolution ."
kosovo can be considered the last piece in the complex balkan political puzzle .
"the independence of kosovo has already been recognised by 69 countries , including 22 eu member states ."
kosovo is not an exception .
that is a crucial point .
most member states have now done this .
i was an early supporter of kosovan independence .
there is a conflict between supranationalism and democracy .
we should recognise it .
albania is certainly a country which has made tangible progress in the context of the reform process .
the political crisis following the june 2009 parliamentary elections is deplorable .
"de mr president , the ex communist socialists in albania are trying to destabilise the successful government there ."
"this was not the case , and I also said this to mr füle yesterday ."
an eu commissioner must not be abused for the purpose of socialist propaganda and for internal political ends .
the macedonian government has democratic legitimacy .
it does first class work and it is putting the country on the path towards european union membership .
aid to kyrgyzstan should be targeted at people and not at a specific government .
uzbekistan has a different opinion in this question .
"as the report indicates , several human rights activists have been arrested without due cause in kyrgyzstan ."
these facts must be borne in mind when evaluating european union strategy towards the existing political power in kyrgyzstan .
those countries also have significant influence in this region .
"that is why I support this report , since this investigation is desperately necessary ."
thank you .
"it states that in 2008 alone , 2.7 million more people were infected ."
the eu has invested billions of euros and the number of people infected is increasing .
has it already been 30 years ?
a policy of sexual and reproductive rights will not help africa .
"de mr president , the common agricultural policy is a success story ."
"of course , there are new and future tasks ."
"these include green growth , renewable energies and combating world hunger ."
we must now work together to provide suitable financial resources for these political tasks .
europe has a duty to guarantee food security for its citizens .
europe must guarantee a suitable livelihood for rural communities .
we must produce and maintain a healthy environment here .
our farmers need a fair wage .
pl I endorsed this report .
this is not inconsistent with free market principles .
"the number of young farmers continues to fall , while we have increasing numbers of older farmers ."
farmers have held protests about this .
"in summary , we should aim for the sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas ."
"lv thank you , mr president ."
it stresses that financing for the policy must be preserved for at least the next long term financial period .
"secondly , it requires that direct payments to farmers be fully financed from the european union budget ."
these destructive discrepancies distort competition and the whole european union market .
"fi mr president , I have to say that I voted in favour of the lyon report ."
"on a few points I had what I might call national reservations , or I voted a bit differently ."
that is why I introduced a few derogations when I voted .
every member state needs its own agriculture and has to ensure that it is preserved .
"mr president , I voted against the lyon report because all over europe governments are cutting their budgets ."
in the united kingdom nurses and teachers face cuts in their pay and pensions .
police numbers are being cut and prisoners are being released because we cannot afford to keep them in prison .
i find that entirely unacceptable .
the government in the uk and governments across europe are saying we are all in this together .
"if we are in it together , we all have to feel the pain together ."
scrapping the cap would allow efficient farmers to thrive .
reform is not enough it is time to scrap the cap .
"fi mr president , I voted in favour of the lyon report ."
they are needed to guarantee the food supply as well as sustainable development .
"the first one is of an environmental , social and qualitative nature ."
the second aspect is an economic one .
lv thank you .
"for this reason , I supported this report , which calls for the current situation to be changed ."
"and finally , we must do much more to promote aquaculture ."
that would greatly help to solve this problem .
"mr president , I would like to thank you and all your staff for all your patience ."
surely it is time to learn from the lessons of successful fish preservation and conservation .
written explanations of vote
noterror agreementrespects grassroots freedoms .
"today , the terms of this agreement have been considerably improved , in the interest of european citizens ."
the agreement is a significant step forward compared to the previous version .
"given the highly sensitive nature of the personal data transferred , I could not vote for this agreement ."
the agreement states that europe will develop its own system for the collection and sorting of bank details .
that will offer the opportunity to individualise transfers .
"from that moment on , the issue of reciprocity will become relevant ."
europol will be charged with the task of verifying and approving us requests .
"under pressure from the european parliament , the agreement which we have already concluded is coming up for review ."
the new agreement strikes a balance between protecting privacy and guaranteeing security .
"in the meantime , the fight against terrorism will remain our overriding concern ."
"while this agreement is satisfactory , certain points could still have been improved ."
this measure will lead to a gross violation of personal privacy .
confidential and private financial data belongs to the individual and not to the eu or the european parliament .
"this is a matter for national governments to decide , and not for the european parliament ."
this new agreement is better than the previous one .
"this agreement , however , continues to allow the mass transfer of data bulk data ."
the choice of europol is wrong .
europol is neither a judicial authority nor a data protection authority .
in writing . pt the fight against terrorism must be a priority for the european union .
i am therefore voting in favour of the measures proposed in this report .
"thanks to the action of mps and of our group in particular , a new version was drawn up ."
"it contains significant underlying improvements , such as the elimination ofbulkdata transfers ."
that is why I chose to vote in favour of the new agreement .
a few months ago the first version of the agreement was too vague and did not offer similar guarantees .
that is why we saidno.
the commission should carry out this task in an assiduous and timely fashion .
articles 15 and 16 ensure that citizens have strengthened access to redress and increased transparency .
the new version is an improvement on the last one .
it is unfortunate that the majority in parliament have now voted in favour of this agreement .
we rather support a more secure society with broad democratic rights and freedoms .
in writing . de the fight against terrorism requires international cooperation governed by agreements .
combating terrorism must not become an excuse for inadequate data protection .
these are serious infringements of fundamental rights .
"however , the european union is not permitted to unduly curtail existing fundamental rights ."
i therefore still reject this swift agreement .
"today , after careful consideration , I voted in favour of the revised swift agreement ."
"this new version also brings improvements , in particular as regards the purpose of data transfer ."
"in view of the importance of data protection , the spd delegation did not make its decision lightly ."
"for us , the top priority was limiting the transfer of bulk data ."
sepa data are not covered by the agreement most transfers are not affected at all .
"the new agreement is a victory for all the european institutions , and for our european parliament in particular ."
i voted against this report .
it is tantamount to approval of united states interference in europe with the complicity of bodies such as swift .
it does not call for any genuine guarantee of the protection of these data or opportunities for redress .
this report and the agreement that it ratifies are a symbol of this europe's enslavement by american imperialism .
all mechanisms that help to discover possible attacks are fundamental to this fight's success .
the project for solution approved today is a good starting point for the difficult negotiations ahead with the us .
in writing . de data protection with the swift agreement is simply a sham .
i voted in favour of the alvaro report because I consider it important to combat terrorism .
terrorism is a threat and as such must be combated .
the re hashed swift agreement does very little to change this situation .
citizens would first have to cope with the cost of instituting legal proceedings in the united states !
what was first celebrated as a success for the european parliament in february has now become a washout .
even the rapporteur admits that he is not totally satisfied .
"it does not provide any real , effective data protection and should therefore be rejected ."
"the agreement also marks a new phase in parliament's powers , ensuring european democratic oversight of international agreements ."
this commitment will in the mid term ensure the termination of bulk data transfers to the us authorities .
i voted in favour of the new swift agreement at today's plenary of the european parliament .
this is a very important agreement which aims to stamp out terrorism and organised crime by combating illegal financing .
it is important that this new agreement also safeguards respect for the personal data of european citizens .
the new agreement refers to the need to create a european tftp terrorist finance tracking program .
this is a commitment which needs to be implemented within five years .
this is not the case here .
"the present agreement enables the transfer of banking data , but introduces proper security and privacy safeguards ."
a real change towards binding fundamental rights protection in the fight against terrorism requires greater courage and effort .
terrorist acts must be prevented and every terrorist act must be condemned in the strongest possible terms .
"on the other hand , there is the protection of citizensrights ."
citizensrights are not a foregone conclusion we have fought for them .
it is a tool of the nato strategy and wars .
it will be a tool for applying the precedence of community law over the national laws of the states .
this compromise was the subject of extensive negotiations and it currently seems satisfactory and balanced to me .
it allows the european parliament to reinforce its prerogatives and preserve the community method .
"in addition , the latter's budget will be subject to political control from parliament ."
my country has shown its commitment to european crisis management missions .
the european external action service eeas represents considerable progress in this respect .
the european interest of the initial draft has been retained .
i am confident that subsequent negotiations on the establishment of the eeas will respect this balance .
will the member states no longer be free to define their own foreign policy ?
it is not acceptable to a sovereign nation for a european organisation to scrutinise its foreign service .
it is not the business of the ep to do so .
a common foreign policy and a common economic policy are the necessary objectives of the european integration process .
in writing . I welcome the brok report as amended .
it was essential to resist the proposal to subsume development policy as part of our foreign policy .
we need an autonomous development service answerable to an autonomous commissioner for development and humanitarian aid .
we need ensure the implementation is pursued in accordance with the spirit and letter of the agreement .
there remain elements of the proposal that could give rise to different interpretations .
the rules and practice governing languages in this service will reveal the extent of its commitment to external communication .
"having no objections to present , I voted in favour of the approval of this decision ."
the same thing has happened with regard to the eu intelligence structures .
"we , as members of a european parliament strengthened by the treaty , can help with this ."
what has parliament managed to win in the negotiations with the high representative ?
"furthermore , it will have the effect of strengthening the european parliament's political and budgetary control powers ."
i sincerely hope that best use will be made of this service in the interests of the european union .
the latter will thus demonstrate genuine political coherence and will speak with one voice on the international stage .
"it can only emerge greater from this , and its actions will be more legitimate and effective ."
the proposal made by baroness ashton is unacceptable .
i shall vote against this text .
today's vote lays the foundations for a strong diplomatic service at european union level .
"moreover , at least 60 % of the staff of this new service will be eu officials ."
this report will ensure geographical balance as well as better coherence between the different aspects of the eeas .
"it is not about duplicating diplomatic services within the eu , but about strengthening the eu's diplomatic services ."
it will allow the eu to exert a real influence in the international arena .
this is a chance for the european union but also for its member states .
timely coordination of the different areas of eu external policy by the commission is clearly important .
"this includes , in particular , the footnotes that were adopted in the text today ."
"a better service could have been possible , though ."
we support the compromise because parliament managed to improve ms ashton's original proposal considerably .
"the deal is not flawless , however ."
"they must work together , create a common esprit de corps and overcome divisive competition ."
"in any case , these costs should be within sensible and comprehensible limits ."
"in this regard , we must utilise synergies in order to achieve maximum quality and cost savings ."
"kosovo is part of a very sensitive geographical zone , on which the eu should maintain constant focus ."
"it is without hesitation that I support this resolution , which addresses these important issues ."
the resolution also calls for an even stronger presence of eulex in kosovo .
in writing . pt I voted against this resolution .
in writing . pt kosovo has still not received unanimous recognition by the member states .
kosovo still has a long way to go .
"for these reasons , I cannot support mrs lunacek's motion for a resolution ."
it has therefore had no real impact on the situation in the country so far .
"the rampant , widespread corruption and the smuggling of weapons and drugs sow unrest in the region ."
it is strange that the currency in this territory is the euro .
particularly as the basic preconditions for using the common european currency have not even superficially been met .
this attack took place four days after the explosion in mitrovica during a serb demonstration .
the eu basically needs to deal with the process of establishing democracy and reinforcing stability in kosovo .
"five eu member states , including france , have not recognised kosovo's independence ."
"consequently , it is unacceptable to present a report today that advocates the integration of kosovo into the eu ."
i shall vote against this unacceptable and provocative text .
this is a signal of encouragement for the government as well as the citizens of kosovo .
"with this resolution , parliament is in favour of starting talks on visa liberalisation as soon as possible ."
that is why it will need all our support .
the union should continue its strategy of expansion in a gradual and strict manner .
"nevertheless , everyone knows that the road to joining the union is a demanding one ."
"the conditions governing entry to the eu are clear and well known , and not always easy to fulfil ."
i hope that albania proceeds along its way towards the union in a determined and unhesitating manner .
it is out of friendship for the albanians that I voted against this text .
i voted against this text .
"it encourages the development and use of renewable energy , public transport and environmental legislation ."
this matter is entirely up to the albanian people themselves .
"one of these measures is to promote people to people contacts through academic exchanges between pupils , students and scientists ."
"we should , in principle , support visa exemption for the countries of the western balkans ."
"however , the prerequisite for this is that all the conditions laid down are fully met ."
i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution drafted by various political groups .
instruments should therefore be introduced to help re establish security in kyrgyzstan .
we must not let ourselves be deceived .
"abortion in the world is a real tragedy , but it is a real tragedy in our europe too !"
"nevertheless , I do not agree with associating the fight against hiv with a sensitive issue like abortion ."
the resolution also requires governments to fulfil their obligation to make a public health service available to all citizens .
"in order to stop the disease , much research is being carried out , also within the eu ."
"since research in the area of hiv / aids is essential , I voted for the resolution ."
"as an advocate of the right to life , I could not in good conscience vote in favour ."
"nevertheless , I would reiterate my total commitment to the fight against hiv / aids ."
it also shows that the ppe group is divided on the issue .
"it is not a problem , today , of drug addicts or homosexuals , but of everyone ."
"at greatest risk are young people , educated people , white people and people working for large corporations ."
almost half of those living with hiv are women .
"women must have universal and easy access to information on health aspects of sex , reproduction and medical services ."
school education programmes on sexual and reproductive rights are crucial for hiv / aids prevention .
for these reasons the ecr group has decided to abstain on this resolution .
this convention needs to be applied immediately by all states .
parliament's support for their prohibition and eradication is fully justified .
"regrettably , children are the main victims of this type of explosive material ."
our motion for a resolution is balanced .
"farmers also provide food , which we need in order to live ."
the report considers the painful consequences for small and medium sized farms to be a success .
they generate more than eur 337 billion in production annually at eu level .
several amendments have been tabled in the plenary part session .
in writing . lt I voted for this report .
the new cap will have to adapt to a changing european and global context and withstand many challenges .
european agriculture must ensure food security to its own consumers and contribute to feeding a steadily growing world population .
agriculture is important to our citizens .
"however , a firm policy will need to be backed up by sufficient financial means ."
there are challenges that we have already mentioned and there will be new ones to contend with .
the union now consists of a great number of member states .
i endorse this report because it calls for comparable funds to be appropriated for agriculture in the post 2013 budget .
"that said , some reformulation will be necessary ."
"first of all , we need simplified arrangements and less red tape ."
a transition period where we proceed with caution will be of major importance in this respect .
this report gives agricultural policy a strategic role in terms of food security and sustainable development .
the report also deals with the links between agricultural policy and fighting climate change .
this was not included in the report .
this was not included in the report .
this was not included in the report either .
amendment 3 we danish social democrats believe that eu subsidies should be removed from european agricultural policy .
free and fair trade should be the guiding principle for an agricultural area based on sustainability .
"this is an issue that concerns europeans , naturally , but also the citizens of the world ."
"that is why this reform should not be the business of experts , but rather of farmers and consumers ."
we have to rethink the general objectives of a new common agricultural policy .
europeans have new expectations in terms of food production and supply .
"we must maintain pillar 1 payments , rewarding farmers for work , securing the industry with direct payments ."
we must define what we mean by a fair distribution of cap and look at production costs .
regional variation is vital .
we must maintain market control measures which control price volatility and ensure profitability .
it has my vote and that of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe .
the most important thing is that it acknowledges the injustice done to farmers of the new member states .
it draws attention to food security and the supply of high quality products at a reasonable price .
"in truth , we cannot understand what benefit the possible transfer of cap funds to other policies could bring ."
"instead , we are advocating measures to secure the only truly common policy that exists in the eu ."
"i would also advocate market regulation in the dairy sector , from production to marketing ."
"in this context , I believe that maintaining milk quotas is vital ."
this was the thrust of one of the various amendments that we have tabled to the report under discussion .
this route is also noted in the report .
we consider such a view unacceptable .
"in addition to food production , agriculture also makes a significant contribution to preserving the cultural landscape ."
the reality is quite different .
i also believe that it is essential to consider regionsterritorial features and priorities .
"we must promote common norms and objectives , taking into account the specific nature of each region ."
"this will enable us to achieve dynamic , multifunctional and sustainable agriculture in europe ."
i am delighted that my amendments along these lines have found their place in this text .
it is also advisable to retain specific tools to manage the production potential that some sectors have .
the biodiversity support measures must not be forgotten .
the 2009 crisis showed the weaknesses of the system of measures to support agriculture .
it is important to guarantee reasonable consumer prices and a fair income for farmers by using targeted aid .
we voted to hold on to the two pillar structure .
market support measures are recognised as being an important part of the cap .
we have rejected any attempts to renationalise the policy .
the commission must come forward with ideas in this regard but caution is required .
this text has the merit of recognising market failures and advocating the fight against climate change .
there its merit ends .
on the contrary it supports productivism and the devastation of local crop farming here and throughout the world .
"in truth , we cannot understand what benefit the possible transfer of cap funds to other policies could bring ."
"instead , we are advocating measures to secure the only truly common policy that exists in the eu ."
"the decoupling of assistance favours large landowners , and threatens small operations and family run farms ."
"despite the failure of the lisbon strategy , the eu has not changed its economic policy ."
"it is not committed to food security , but to competitiveness , which only favours large multinationals ."
i believe that the agricultural sector needs to be considered as strategic within the european union .
i support the structure and approach of the lyon report .
"thus , the adoption of this report is highly satisfactory ."
in writing . yet again the european parliament has abdicated its responsibilities by failing to reform the cap .
i believe this report should be renamed theincrease in subsidies to inefficient farmersreport .
it penalises the efficient farmer and props up the inefficient one .
that is what cap reform should be about .
what the consumer cares about is quality and price .
"this applies not only to cars and televisions , but also to bread , vegetables , meat and milk ."
"however , a functioning market and a competitive environment would solve this problem in a natural way ."
"now , like the rapporteur , it seems critical to me to restore our communal production ."
"imports of fishery and aquaculture products have increased enormously , but that increase has been necessary ."
"in my opinion , the environmental and social circumstances must also be taken into account ."
imports are necessary .
"i am not in favour of protectionism by stealth , but we do need to prevent unfair competition ."
"for that reason , I will be voting in favour of this own initiative report ."
i voted in favour of the report by mr cadec .
imported products must satisfy the same quality criteria as those produced in the eu .
the report calls for the creation of an ecolabel for fisheries products .
"at the same time , developing countries need to be able to develop their own fishing ."
"according to the report , europe currently imports 60 % of the fish it consumes ."
"having grown rapidly since 2005 , this market is increasingly dependent on imports ."
i fully support the need to change and revitalise the eu's fisheries and aquaculture sector .
european fisheries cannot survive in the long term with protectionism and subsidies .
it is time to make up for the underestimates and delays of the past .
fishing is a key sector in our economic and social system and as such it must be respected .
"in addition , greater attention should be paid to food security aspects in order to safeguard consumers ."
the money saved as a result could be made available to programmes conducted by producersorganisations .
the quality of imported fishery products is extremely important in this context .
"it is an important step towards preventing global distortions of competition and supporting honest , law abiding fishermen ."
"i support mr cadec's report , which highlights a far reaching and important aspect of the european fisheries industry ."
"i therefore advocate a stringent policy of certification , which could control these problems effectively ."
"in writing . de for its survival , every state needs to maintain food self sufficiency ."
"fishing is important for food , and also ensures a variety of jobs ."
"with imports , however , adherence to our own rules can hardly be monitored ."
"the measures proposed are a step in the right direction , and I have voted for the report ."
the community strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture was recently approved .
i agree with the rapporteur on the issue of customs protection .
"for these reasons , I voted in favour of this report ."
"when there is a lack of knowledge among consumers , the only argument in the market becomes price ."
"therefore , it is necessary to tighten up legislation on identification ."
thank you .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
"zimbabwe , in particular the case of farai maguwu"
"unfortunately , once again we are forced to address them ."
this time it is the case of the human rights activist farai maguwu .
he is simply a prisoner of conscience .
"madam president , behind the farai maguwu case lies the whole issue of diamond mining ."
this is clearly unacceptable .
"secondly , we are dealing with the strange role that the monitor of the kimberley process has played ."
"ultimately , then , we are also dealing with the kimberley process itself ."
it has proven to be a successful system .
they are not covered by this resolution and that is why we are demanding an amendment .
"after all , all diamonds are mined in appalling conditions ."
to say that the situation in zimbabwe is tragic is unfortunately an understatement .
the last elections took place in a climate of fear .
"time and again these conditions have been condemned by ngos , including that of mr maguwu ."
the intersessional meeting in tel aviv failed to reach a decision on the follow up to this report .
the european union is the main contributor of humanitarian aid to zimbabwe .
its attitude in this matter must therefore be exemplary .
it must maintain its positions .
can you tell us what the position of the european union will be in st petersburg ?
i have to say this is one area where this house speaks with one voice .
today we are discussing the systematic abuse of workers in the diamond fields of zimbabwe by government security forces .
we have seen the crackdown on mr maguwu and on other human rights defenders .
"if I stand up and speak as an englishman , they will dismiss it ."
"as europeans , they will dismiss us ."
"we talk about africa being in your hands , and the future of africa being in your hands ."
"on the issue of the protection of human rights , this is a question of our fundamental credibility ."
"here , we must say clearlyyea , yea nay , nay."
human rights are being upheld or they are not .
we must not content ourselves with small advances .
i have the impression that in some of the speeches there was an element of satisfaction with small advances .
the keyword in this case is transparency .
the exploitation of diamonds has a role to play in combating poverty and achieving the millennium development goals .
"today , however , we are talking about someone for whom diamonds may become a curse ."
farai maguwu was arrested on charges of publishing information prejudicial to the state .
we know of constructive examples of the use of diamonds for development of the right kind .
botswana is one such case .
during the last 30 years the mugabe regime has made zimbabwe bankrupt and turned it into a humanitarian disaster .
blood diamonds are proof of the cynicism displayed by governing circles lacking scruples and respect for their own citizens .
zimbabwe is violating the standards stipulated by the kimberley process certification scheme for selling rough diamonds .
"madam president , it is now less than five weeks since farai maguwu was detained by the zimbabwean authorities ."
since then he has been kept in detention in unknown conditions and deprived of his personal rights .
i also agree that african states have an important role to play in improving conditions there .
inevitably the wealth from these mines is now bankrolling mugabe's henchmen .
zimbabwe should therefore be refused readmission to the kimberley process .
"in addition , we condemn the illegal arrests which are being made and demand the release of farai maguwu ."
the eu delegation is monitoring his situation very closely .
this is an issue we have raised on various occasions and in different fora .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
written statements rule 149 
in writing . I join the voices calling for the release of farai maguwu .
he was arrested for providing information on the kimberley process .
farai maguwu must be released from prison immediately .
"venezuela , in particular the case of maria lourdes afiuni"
"this led to her incarceration in a maximum security prison , in conditions that are putting her life in danger ."
amnesty international and the united nations high commissioner for human rights have indicated their great concern .
"this is not an isolated case , ladies and gentlemen ."
we have therefore requested that judge afiuni be freed immediately .
things have not improved since our last resolution quite the opposite .
several judges have become victims of such presidential behaviour .
some have been removed from office others have left the country .
there is no doubt this measure was taken to humiliate her and to frighten her .
"es president chávez , judge afiuni must be freed immediately ."
"this would not only be fair on your part , but also a notable humanitarian gesture ."
"the question certainly deserves to be asked , as both combinations are common in hardline regimes ."
what is the issue at stake here ?
she was arrested following this release and placed in detention .
"it is true that her detention conditions are absolutely terrible , like those in all venezuelan prisons ."
"however , we are not holding an urgent debate on prisons here ."
"i agree with you on that , but I cannot agree with you on the rest ."
"author . es madam president , I am of the same opinion as mrs de keyser ."
perhaps not in the form of an emergency resolution .
it will have escaped nobody's attention that we have elections very soon .
i have a very clear lack of affinity or political sympathy for mr chávez a complete lack .
he has now targeted the independence of the judiciary as a next obstacle to his assumption of absolute power .
how this judge can hope for a fair trial is beyond me .
this paradox continues to undermine the eu's collective efforts to expose the alarming trend towards totalitarianism in venezuela .
applause 
"moreover , does he know that mr chávez poses a danger to democracy and the rule of law ?"
"mr posselt , it is a question of priorities ."
what I am saying specifically is that we should keep clear what is important and what the priorities are .
that is why we have this campaign of vilification .
i am also filled with sadness by the attitude of mrs de keyser and mr romeva I rueda .
judge afiuni's case is a sad reminder of venezuela's negative attitude towards human rights .
"hopefully , nobody here would argue otherwise ."
venezuela wanted to make civil society participation subject to domestic law .
there is a bad precedent .
the legitimacy of the next parliament is crucial in these times of deteriorating democracy .
"finally , I would like to add my voice in calling for the release of the judge ."
sk I am outraged at the way president chávez is governing in venezuela .
during my previous speech I referred to journalists .
venezuela has been a land of refuge for many .
we are talking here today about human rights and who is breaching them .
"member of the commission . madam president , the eu is closely following the situation in venezuela ."
we are following the tendency of political polarisation re emerging in the country with concern .
applause 
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
written statements rule 149 
the case of maria lourdes afiuni is absolutely appalling to anyone who defends democratic values .
it highlights the fact that the rule of law is nothing but a meaningless concept in venezuela .
the politicisation of the judiciary has increased since hugo chávez came to power .
judicial authorities do not usually dare speak out against the government .
"when this does happen , the consequences are drastic ."
the venezuelan government must release judge afiuni quickly and stop its attacks on the independence of the judiciary .
north korea
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on north korea .
it is also a measure of how serious the situation is in kim jong il's famished empire .
we do not have the names of any dissidents or activists in the territory of north korea .
that information must be allowed to percolate through to us .
the situation there is even incomparable with that in the former soviet union or ceausescu's romania .
various concrete recommendations to this effect may be found in parliament's joint resolution .
well done !
i also wholeheartedly support paragraph 14 of the resolution .
"madam president , officially north korea claims that it guarantees religious freedom to its population of 24 million ."
what evidence is there of his crime 20 bibles and 10 worship tapes ?
it would appear that this is the thing that the north korean authorities literally mortally fear .
i would like to focus on two things .
there is a second point I would like to mention .
"it is ridiculously difficult to get out of this country , to escape ."
that is important when we consider the situation that these people are in .
what is currently happening here is appalling .
let me finish with one thought .
applause 
recently we have been able to see sportsmen from north korea playing at the fifa world cup .
in the following matches they did not do so well .
why am I talking about this sports event ?
"afterwards , the players met with repression , and they were held in forced labour camps ."
we are very worried about what is going to happen to these sportsmen next .
this is perhaps a country like no other in the world right now .
fortunately in our resolution we recognised that china has a role to play .
this should be one of the future topics of our discussions with china when we have our bilateral dialogue .
reportedly 80 % of north koreans in china end up as trafficking victims .
"women are particularly vulnerable to prostitution , rape , arranged marriages and bride traffickers ."
many victims of trafficking are unable to speak chinese and are held as virtual prisoners .
china must change its law to protect the victims of trafficking instead of returning them to north korea .
therefore I will not expand on what other colleagues have said .
"the question really is , what can we do about it ?"
there are 24 million people in north korea who need our assistance .
provision of a radio in a country where there is no information is actually a vital tool .
"finally , we should do our best to assist refugees ."
"as other colleagues have said , people flee north korea and they are not given the assistance they deserve ."
"unfortunately , things are not as mr vigenin and mr martin have said ."
"this is unfortunate , because it would seem that on this question we ought to be united ."
i come from a country which was ruled by communism .
this is something which we should guarantee .
"however , there has also been the experience of footballers being made personally responsible for defeats ."
i call on the north korean government to explain the whereabouts of the footballers .
even potential victories in football cannot mask the reality of the situation .
occasional news leaks come out from defectors and the reality is truly horrific .
the death penalty is applied regularly with no regard to the rule of law .
we all remain extremely concerned about north korea .
"regrettably pyongyang has nuclear weapons and seeks collaboration with other nefarious regimes around the world , such as iran ."
also the recent sinking of a south korean naval vessel was undoubtedly a deliberate attack by the north .
the government of the people's republic of korea denies the existence of the problem of human rights violations .
"this is , however , at complete variance with the eye witness reports of refugees and defectors ."
"pl madam president , north korea and cuba are the last remnants of communism in the world ."
the dream of many north koreans is simply to flee their own country .
"however , life is better there than in north korea ."
ro the human rights situation in north korea is giving particularly grave cause for concern .
"the leadership in this country bans any form of political opposition , democratic elections , press and religious freedom ."
"according to reports , more than 150 000 north koreans continue to be held in six labour camps ."
they are not given any kind of medical care and receive very little food .
"torture and sentences in forced labour camps , often because of political views , are an everyday occurrence there ."
how can we help the koreans in this situation ?
through an active joint approach by the great powers .
ro there are so many human rights violations in north korea that we cannot list them all .
the majority of those sent to these camps are no longer released .
"if they have children , the latter can spend their whole life in captivity ."
"although perhaps unwillingly , the west has rather often turned its attention away from events on the korean peninsula ."
"therefore , we must talk specifically about the crimes which are being committed and renew our appeals ."
"member of the commission . madam president , I would like to congratulate parliament for undertaking this debate ."
we will continue to do so .
these people cannot simply be regarded aseconomic migrants.
we very much welcome the convergence of views among members and between the members of parliament and the commission .
we should not punish them for the sins of their leaders .
the negotiated text for this free trade agreement provides for the possibility of designating outward processing zones .
"she is , however , now considering all options to do it in the context of two things ."
the third point is a proposal to press for the establishment of a commission of inquiry at the un .
the european commission deeply appreciates the rationale of this proposal in the motion for a resolution .
"with this in mind , we need to ensure that he has all the back up to do his job ."
"from the commission's position , we see this today as the better course in front of us ."
applause 
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place shortly .
written statements rule 149 
it is the eu's duty to urge north korea to respect human rights .
"debates on cases of breaches of human rights , democracy and the rule of law"
"zimbabwe , in particular the case of farai maguwu "
before the vote on amendment 6 
"venezuela , in particular the case of maria lourdes afiuni "
north korea 
voting time
the next item is the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes . 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
composition of committees see minutes
request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
verification of credentials see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament .
the sitting closed at 16.35 . 
resumption of the session
ogłaszam wznowienie sesji parlamentu europejskiego przerwanej w czwartek 8 lipca 2010 r .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
documents received see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
petitions see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
action taken on parliament's resolutions see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
documents received see minutes
freedom of movement for workers within the union codified version 
authentication of euro coins and handling of euro coins unfit for circulation 
macro financial assistance for the republic of moldova 
temporary suspension of autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products into madeira and the azores 
interconnection of business registers 
funding and functioning of the european globalisation adjustment fund 
jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters 
social integration of women belonging to ethnic minority groups 
role of women in an ageing society 
journalism and new media creating a public sphere in europe 
si conclude così il turno di votazioni .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
the case of sakineh mohammadi ashtiani motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
la seduta è tolta alle 00.25 
opening of the sitting
composition of committees see minutes
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
se abre la sesión a las 10.00 horas 
better lawmaking 
long term care for older people vote 
situation of the jordan river with special regard to the lower jordan river area vote 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
"debates on cases of breaches of human rights , democracy and the rule of law"
kenya failure to arrest president omar al bashir of sudan 
"human rights in syria , in particular the case of haythan al maleh "
voting time
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
request for the defence of parliamentary immunity see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
council position at first reading see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
documents received see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament .
the sitting closed at 16.05 
resumption of the session
"i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday , 9 september 20composition of parliament see minutes"
signature of acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure see minutes
composition of committees see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
petitions see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
corrigendum to the minutes of the sitting of 5 may 2010 see minutes
documents received see minutes
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 09 05 
action taken on parliament's resolutions see minutes
draft amending budget no 5 / 2010 olaf and the review of own resources 
investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation 
security of gas supply 
prevention of natural and man made disasters 
voting time
the next item is voting time .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting was closed at 23 40 
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 09 05 
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
multiannual financial framework for 2007 2013 
refund of value added tax 
pharmacovigilance of medicinal products amendment of regulation ec no 726 / 2004 
pharmacovigilance amendment of directive 2001 / 83 / ec 
european insurance and occupational pensions authority 
macro prudential oversight of the financial system and establishment of a european systemic risk board 
european banking authority 
specific tasks for the european central bank concerning the functioning of the european systemic risk board 
european securities and markets authority 
"european strategy for the economic and social development of mountain regions , islands and sparsely populated areas "
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting was closed at 18 55 
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
verification of credentials see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
documents received see minutes
council positions at first reading see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
resumption of the session
"i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday , 23 september 20approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes"
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
documents received see minutes
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting was closed at 23 25 
opening of the sitting
the sitting was opened at 09 05 
documents received see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
"appointment of a member of the court of auditors mr lazaros stavrou lazarou , cy "
"appointment of a member of the court of auditors mr gijs m. de vries , nl "
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund spain / galicia textiles 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund denmark / linak a / s 
failures in protection of human rights and justice in the democratic republic of congo 
world day against the death penalty 
voting time continuation 
basel ii and revision of the capital requirements directive crd 4 
health care systems in sub saharan africa and global health 
eu cohesion and regional policy after 2013 vote 
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned .
the sitting was closed at 13 25 
resumption of the session
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 7 october 20approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
signature of acts adopted under codecision see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
documents received see minutes
petitions see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting was closed at 23 00 
opening of the sitting
delegated acts rule 87a see minutes
documents received see minutes
statistical returns in respect of carriage of goods and passengers by sea 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund nordjylland / denmark 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund nxp semiconductors / netherlands 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund qimonda / portugal 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund cataluña automoción / spain 
convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries 
precarious women workers 
that concludes the vote .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
agenda for next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
revision of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission 
financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities as regards the european external action service 
voting time
the next item is the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
draft amending budget no 3 / 2010 section iii commission bam banana accompanying measures 
parliament's position on the 2011 draft budget as modified by the council all sections 
combating late payment in commercial transactions 
role of minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in europe 
"financial , economic and social crisis recommendations concerning the measures and initiatives to be taken "
voting time continuation 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
composition of committees see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
documents received see minutes
instrument for stability 
financing instrument for development cooperation 
financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide 
financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries 
financing instrument for development cooperation 
future of european standardisation 
trade relations with latin america 
voting time
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting
"debates on cases of breaches of human rights , democracy and the rule of law"
forced evictions in zimbabwe 
"cambodia , in particular the case of sam rainsy "
voting time
verification of credentials see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
I declare adjourned the session of the european parliament .
the sitting closed at 16.25 
resumption of the session
ogłaszam wznowienie sesji parlamentu europejskiego przerwanej w czwartek 21 października 2010 r .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
corrigendum rule 216 see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
documents received see minutes
action taken on parliament's positions and resolutions see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting closed at 23.40 
opening of the sitting
documents received see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund ireland sr technics 
request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr krzysztof lisek 
eu external strategy on passenger name record pnr 
innovation partnerships 
strengthening the osce a role for the eu 
demographic challenge and solidarity between generations 
implementation of the research framework programmes 
voting time
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
resumption of the session
"ogłaszam wznowienie sesji parlament europejskiego przerwanej w czwartek , 11. listopada 2010 r ."
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
documents received see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
petitions see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
la seduta è tolta alle 23.45 
opening of the sitting
mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund ireland floods in november 2009 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund drenthe division 18 / netherlands 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund limburg division 18 / netherlands 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund gelderland and overijssel division 18 / netherlands 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund noord holland and utrecht division 18 / netherlands 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund noord holland and zuid holland division 58 / netherlands 
aid granted in the framework of the german alcohol monopoly 
ec ukraine agreement for scientific and technological cooperation 
ec government of the faroes scientific and technological agreement 
ec japan agreement on cooperation in science and technology 
ec jordan agreement on scientific and technological cooperation 
fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and solomon islands 
common system of value added tax and duration of obligation to respect a minimum standard rate 
ecb annual report for 2009 
civilian military cooperation and the development of civilian military capabilities 
use of alien and locally absent species in aquaculture 
state aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines 
voting time
το επόμενο σημείο είναι οι ψηφοφορίες .
acp eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009 
voting time continuation 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
documents received see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
the sitting closed at 23.40 
opening of the sitting
posiedzenie zostało otwarte o godz .
09.05 
anti counterfeiting trade agreement motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
implementing measures rule 88 see minutes
protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the ec and moldova 
information on medicinal products community code relating to medicinal products 
hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment 
anti counterfeiting trade agreement acta 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity see minutes
composition of committees and delegations see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
die sitzung wird um 23.55 uhr geschlossen .
opening of the sitting
se abre la sesión a las 9.00 horas 
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
un security council resolution 1325 on women and peace and security motions for resolutions tabled see minutes
1. budget 
"human rights , social and environmental standards in international trade agreements "
european ombudsman's activity report for 2009 
5. th annual report on monitoring the application of european union law 2008 
7. th anniversary of un security council resolution 1325 on women and peace and security 
the situation in the beekeeping sector vote 
preparations for cancun climate change conference 29 november 10 december 
situation in western sahara 
competition horizontal cooperation rules vote 
con ciò si conclude il turno di votazioni .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
"debates on cases of breaches of human rights , democracy and the rule of law debate "
tibet plans to make chinese the main language of instruction 
burma conduct of elections and the release of opposition leader aung san suu kyi 
voting time
the next item is the vote .
for the results and other details on the vote see minutes 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
documents received see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
adjournment of the session
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament .
the sitting closed at 16.30 
resumption of the session
"ogłaszam wznowienie sesji parlamentu europejskiego przerwanej w czwartek , 25. listopada 2010 r ."
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
signature of acts adopted under codecision see minutes
action taken on parliament's resolutions see minutes
composition of parliament see minutes
composition of interparliamentary delegations see minutes
oral questions and written declarations submission see minutes
lapsed written declarations see minutes
texts of agreements forwarded by the council see minutes
petitions see minutes
transfers of appropriations see minutes
documents received see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
se levanta la sesión a las 23.15 horas 
opening of the sitting
la seduta è aperta alle 9.00 
documents received see minutes
oral questions tabling see minutes
mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund portugal floods france xynthia storm 
"mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund si / mura , slovenia "
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund heidelberger druckmaschinen ag / germany 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund wielkopolskie automotive from poland 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund aragón retail trade from spain 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund comunidad valenciana textiles / spain 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund comunidad valenciana natural stone from spain 
mobiliation of the european globalisation adjustment fund lear from spain 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund h.cegielski poznań from poland 
extension of the scope of directive 2003 / 109 / ec to beneficiaries of international protection 
eu georgia agreement on facilitation of issuance of visas 
eu rapid response capability 
regulation of trading in financial instruments dark pools etc . 
good governance and eu regional policy 
creation of an immigration liaison officers network 
trafficking in human beings 
eu georgia agreement on readmission of persons residing without authorisation 
"territorial , social and economic cohesion "
con esto concluimos el turno de votaciones .
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
posiedzenie zostało otwarte o godz .
15.05 
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
presentation of the commission work programme for 2011 motions for resolutions tabled 
future of the africa / eu strategic partnership motions for resolutions tabled 
implementing measures rule 88 
mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund noord holland ict / netherlands 
repeal of directives regarding metrology 
citizensinitiative 
impact of advertising on consumer behaviour 
energy efficiency action plan 
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting
composition of parliament see minutes
agenda of the next sitting see minutes
closure of the sitting
opening of the sitting
se abre la sesión a las 9.00 horas 
european heritage label 
control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers 
situation in côte d ivoire 
welfare of laying hens vote 
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
"debates on cases of breaches of human rights , democracy and the rule of law debate "
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting see minutes
als nächster punkt folgt die abstimmung .
uganda the bahati bill and discrimination against the lgbt population 
voting time
corrections to votes and voting intentions see minutes
council positions at first reading see minutes
decisions concerning certain documents see minutes
documents received see minutes
written declarations included in the register rule 123 see minutes
forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting see minutes
dates of forthcoming sittings see minutes
What is your name?
What is your name ?
What's your name?
What's your name ?
I eat an apple
I eat an orange
